=== SOURCE ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/scholarships/commonwealth-startup-fellowship-information-for-candidates/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/privacy-notice/

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Commonwealth Startup Fellowships information - Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK %
Commonwealth Startup Fellowships – information for candidates
by
Ed Clarkson
|
Dec 18, 2024
Commonwealth Startup Fellowships – information for candidates
Overview
Applicant eligibility
Eligible countries
Completing the application form
Financial assistance
Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
General conditions
Enquiries
Overview
Commonwealth Startup Fellowships run for six months and are designed to ignite and elevate high-potential startups from low and middle income Commonwealth countries. The programme is made up of a combination of immersive in-person experiences and online learning, to provide participants with essential skills, cutting-edge knowledge, and a robust global network.
The CSC and Imperial College London intend that by the end of the programme, entrepreneurs will be equipped to scale their businesses successfully, pitch fluently, and drive job creation in their home countries.
One person from each business must be available to attend a two-week bootcamp in Accra, Ghana and a weeklong series of capstone events at the end of the programme.
Applications for Commonwealth Startup Fellowships are currently closed
.
Applicant eligibility
Candidates must read the following information carefully to make sure they meet the eligibility criteria and that the programme would be a good fit for their business.
Fellow eligibility
To be eligible for this fellowship, candidates must:
Be of at least graduate level
Be a citizen of or have been granted refugee status by an eligible low or middle income Commonwealth country
Be permanently resident in an eligible Commonwealth country
Be fluent in written and spoken English
Not have undertaken a Commonwealth Professional Fellowship within the last five years (at the time of taking up the award)
Be available to undertake the fellowship from the prescribed start date (16 November 2026)
Be available to attend the Bootcamp in Accra, Ghana (estimated 25 January – 4 February 2027)
Be available to attend the Capstone Week in London, UK (estimated 14 – 21 May 2027)
In addition, they must:
Have a startup that has been registered as a legal entity in accordance with local regulations;
Demonstrate evidence of innovation, in terms of product, service, business model or approach to addressing a market need;
Have progressed beyond the idea, prototype, and pilot stages;
Have been actively operating their business for at least twelve months and be able to demonstrate meaningful progress;
Have a product or service that is available to customers;
Have demonstrated customer demand through paying customers and evidence of ongoing customer adoption (such as repeat purchases, contract renewals, recurring revenue, or sustained usage);
Operate through a sustainable business model and is not primarily dependent on donations, philanthropy, or grant funding;
Create positive economic, social, or environmental outcomes through its core activities;
Have evidence of commercial traction, growth, and the potential to scale;
Be seeking to scale their customer base, operations, impact, or geographic reach.
The CSC aims to identify talented individuals who have the potential to make change. We are committed to a policy of equal opportunity and non-discrimination and encourage applications from a diverse range of candidates. For further information on the support available to Fellows with a disability, please see the CSC disability support statement.
Please note that personal information will be used to conduct necessary due diligence checks by the CSC. These checks will be carried out before proceeding with any type of formal agreement or contractual relationship. In most cases, the due diligence checks will be straightforward, but further information may be requested, so we ask for full cooperation from candidates to speed up the process.
If candidates do not agree to their personal data being used for the purpose of conducting due diligence, the CSC will not be able to proceed further with the selection process.
Eligible countries
Bangladesh
Belize
Botswana
Cameroon
Dominica
Eswatini
Fiji
Gabon
The Gambia
Ghana
Grenada
Guyana
India
Jamaica
Kenya
Kiribati
Lesotho
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mauritius
Montserrat
Mozambique
Namibia
Nauru
Nigeria
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Rwanda
St Helena
St Lucia
St Vincent and The Grenadines
Samoa
Sierra Leone
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Sri Lanka
Tanzania
Togo
Tonga
Tuvalu
Uganda
Vanuatu
Zambia
Completing the application form
Applications for
Commonwealth Startup Fellowships
are currently closed
.
Please note that the CSC is unable to accept any applications or documentation that have not been submitted via the online application portal. Once an application is submitted, it cannot be edited or changed in any way.
In the application form, candidates are asked to:
List information about their
business, their
role within it,
and information about their team.
List the names and positions of two referees who are qualified to comment on their capacity to benefit from the fellowship.
Provide a one-minute video elevator pitch, clearly explaining the problem their business is solving, the solution it offers, the progress it has made so far, and what difference taking part in this programme will make.
Please make sure the video is provided in a compatible format
for playback across Windows and Mac devices (e.g. MP4) and
does not require a specific access request.
Any videos that cannot be easily accessed will not be viewed and their accompanying applications will be discontinued from the selection process. Password protection is fine – please use the space available in the application form to list the video password.
Provide a scan of their passport or national identity card.
Financial assistance
Each fellowship provides:
Approved return travel from the Fellow’s home country to the in-person bootcamp in Accra, Ghana including, a
ccommodation, travel, and catering.
Approved return travel from the Fellow’s home country to the in-person
Capstone Week
in
London
,
UK
including
a
ccommodation,
travel,
and catering.
Reimbursement of the standard visa application fee.
Up to
£2,000 in equity free grants
for business or participation-related costs.
If a Fellow declares a disability, a full assessment of needs and eligibility for additional financial support will be offered by the CSC. See the
CSC disability support statement
for more information.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
For a full list of FAQs, visit the
Imperial Enterprise Lab programme page
General conditions
In order for the CSC to administer a Fellow’s application effectively and efficiently after they have submitted, it will be necessary to create a record in their name. The details of Fellows who are nominated to the CSC will be kept on file. Basic anonymised demographic data for all applicants will be kept for analytical research. The CSC is committed to protecting personal information and to being transparent about the information we are collecting about individuals and what we do with it. To find out more, see our
privacy notice
.
An award may be terminated at any time for reasons of unsatisfactory conduct, progress, attendance, or violation of visa conditions, or if the delivery partner decides it is unable to proceed with the fellowship for any reason before or during the award.
Applicants and selected Fellows must adhere to the
CSC Code of Conduct for Award Holders
and
CSC Award Holder Disciplinary Policy and Procedure
which states:
As a Commonwealth Scholar or Fellow, you are an ambassador for both the CSC and your home country, and your actions and remarks will have an impact on the reputation of both. You are therefore expected to adhere to high standards of conduct and behaviour and to show respect to others and your surroundings at all times.
The CSC aims to enable a free exchange of ideas during all its activities in order to achieve the maximum potential impact for all participants. Recognising the diversity of backgrounds among our award holders – in terms of race, religion, gender, sexuality and cultural values – you are reminded to always be respectful to others.
The CSC is committed to proactively safeguarding and promoting the welfare of Commonwealth Scholars and Fellows, and to protecting all those with whom the CSC comes into contact. The CSC requires Commissioners, Secretariat staff, Scholars and Fellows to fulfil their role and responsibilities in a manner consistent with requirements for safeguarding.
The following are not eligible to apply for a Commonwealth Scholarship or Fellowship: an employee, a former employee, or relative of an employee of the Government of the United Kingdom; or a staff member of The Association of Commonwealth Universities, the British Council or Imperial College London; or a Commonwealth Scholarship Commissioner, former Commonwealth Scholarship Commissioner or a relative of a Commonwealth Scholarship Commissioner. Former employees of the organisations listed above are eligible to apply three years after ceasing their employment with them.
In line with the UK Bribery Act 2010, any applicant convicted of bribery will be banned from reapplying for a Commonwealth Scholarship or Fellowship for a period of up to five years.
The CSC is committed to administering and managing its Scholarships and Fellowships in a fair and transparent manner. For more information, see the
CSC Anti-fraud Policy and Procedure
and the
FCDO guidance on reporting fraud
.
All terms and conditions of award are subject to UK local law and practices and are subject to change by the CSC.
For more information, see the
H
andbook for Commonwealth Scholars
. Please note that the conditions outlined in this handbook are subject to change.
Enquiries
If you have any queries about the Commonwealth Startup Fellowship, please email
CSF@Imperial.ac.uk
for more information.
Please note that any general enquiries about applying for Commonwealth Scholarships sent to this email address will not be answered. Please use the
for enquiries about other CSC programmes.
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyse our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Reject
Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Duration
Description
lidc
1 day
LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
li_gc
6 months
Linkedin set this cookie for storing visitor's consent regarding using cookies for non-essential purposes.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Duration
Description
CLARITY_ID
Session
Microsoft Clarity - identifies the current session for heatmaps and recordings.
_clck
1 year
Microsoft Clarity - stores a unique user ID to recognise returning visits.
_clsk
1 day
Microsoft Clarity - connects multiple page views into a single session.
_ga
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to calculate visitor, session and campaign data and track site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognise unique visitors.
_ga_*
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to store and count page views.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Duration
Description
bcookie
1 year
LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser IDs.
iutk
6 months
Issuu sets this cookie to recognise the user's device and what Issuu documents have been read.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
Powered by
