=== SOURCE ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/scholarships/commonwealth-phd-scholarships-for-least-developed-countries-and-fragile-states/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/privacy-notice/

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships - Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships
by
Alumni Team
|
Aug 2, 2022
COMMONWEALTH PHD SCHOLARSHIPS
Overview
How to apply
Supporting documentation
Advice for applicants
Choosing a university/course
Applicant eligibility
Eligible countries
Completing the application form
Selection process and criteria
Tenure and placement
Financial assistance
General conditions
FAQs and enquiries
Overview
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships are for applicants from least developed countries and vulnerable states, as classified by the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC), in the Commonwealth, for full-time doctoral study at a UK university.
The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK (CSC) provides the UK government scholarship scheme led by international development objectives. It operates within the framework of the Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan (CSFP) and offers a vivid demonstration of the UK’s enduring commitment to the Commonwealth. By attracting individuals with outstanding talent and identifiable potential from all backgrounds and supporting them to become leaders and innovators on returning to their home countries, the CSC’s work combines sustainable development with the UK national interest and provides opportunities for international partnerships and collaboration.
Purpose:
Funded by the
UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)
, Commonwealth PhD scholarships contribute to the development needs of Commonwealth countries by supporting research that will have a developmental impact. They also enhance individual teaching and research capacity leading to increase institutional capacity in academic and other sectors in Commonwealth countries, and will contribute to UK higher education and research by attracting high-calibre international applicants and encouraging links and collaboration, and are aimed at those who could not otherwise afford to study in the UK.
Intended beneficiaries:
Commonwealth PhD scholarships are for high-quality graduates who have the potential to undertake world-class research of a developmental nature and to become influential leaders, teachers, or researchers in their home countries.
These scholarships are offered under the six
CSC Development themes
.
How to apply
Applications for Commonwealth PhD Scholarships for the 2027/28 academic year are now
open
.
The closing date for applications is
16:00 BST on Tuesday 20 October
.
Please note that this opportunity is for study in the UK beginning in September/October 2027.
Applications to the CSC are made using the application system,
CSC Central
.
The CSC is unable to accept any applications or documentation not submitted via CSC Central
.
Candidates wishing to save a copy of an application that has already been submitted can
access the system and
use the ‘view a submitted application’ function
.
It is recommended to prepare answer
s outside of the system and then add them to the form once they have been finalised.
There is a
template application form
and
guidance document
available to assist applicants when applying
.
The form uses a
two-factor authen
tication (2FA) system and will require access to either a smartphone or a second email account when registering. The 2FA system must be passed each time a user
logs in to access the form
.
When logging in to view a saved or completed application,
a user
will be asked for a reference (in format 01234-SSP-UK-15) and a 22-character passcode. These are found in the Application Reference Number email you received upon completing the enter your details page. Please remember to keep this email and the details contained within it safe.
Candidates are asked to note:
The save function should be used to avoid loss of data.
R
efreshing the browser window
will cause candidates to exit the form and will result in any unsaved data being lost.
Applications may not be edited after submitting.
Candidates are advised to complete and submit applications as early as possible as
we anticipate that
the online application system will be very busy in the days leading up to the application deadline
and we are not able to accept late applications if you run out of time to submit
.
Users should
use
system
back buttons rather than those on the
browser. Please note that clicking on the CSC logo will return users to the log in screen where they will need to pass 2FA again to enter
again
.
As well as applying to the CSC, applicants must apply to a
nominator
.
There are two types of nominator invited to participate in the PhD Scholarship programme:
National nominating agencies
– this is the main route of application.
Selected non-governmental organisations and charitable bodies
.
Participating nominators put forward an agreed number of candidates to the CSC for consideration.
The CSC does not accept direct applications for these scholarships.
Each nominator oversees its own selection process and may have additional eligibility criteria.
Applicants must check with the nominator for their specific advice and rules for applying, and their own eligibility criteria.
Nominators may set their own closing dates for applications. They
will nominate candidates to the CSC in December 2026.
Selections are made from the pool of nominations.
Candidates are asked to note that a nomination is no guarantee of selection.
Applicants can expect to hear the outcome of their applications by July 2027. We will contact all applicants by email and they should ensure all folders of their email accounts are monitored, including junk mail and spam folders. A scholarship offer may be withdrawn if a candidate is emailed but does not respond within a specified time.
Supporting documentation
Applications must include supporting documentation to be eligible.
Please note that applicants are required to collect references and supporting statements, either on institution letterhead or an email clearly showing the sender’s details, from referees and proposed supervisors in the UK, and then upload them in PDF format to the application system with their other supporting documentation.
The references and supporting statements must be uploaded to the application system by the deadline for applications and we are unable to accept references and supporting statements any other way or after this date.
Applicants must upload the following documents with the application:
Proof that they are a citizen or have refugee status in an eligible Commonwealth country: a copy of a valid passport (or national ID card) showing a photograph, date of birth, and country of citizenship.
Full transcripts detailing
all
higher education qualifications, including to-date transcripts for any courses currently being studied, with certified translations if not in English. Where any transcripts are missing or do not include all pages, the application will be considered ineligible.
If to-date transcripts are not available, the application must include an explanation why this is the case.
References from at least two individuals, in PDF format, signed and on institutional letterhead or an email clearly showing the sender’s details.
A supporting statement, in PDF format, signed and either on institutional letterhead or an email clearly showing the sender’s details, from a proposed supervisor in the UK from at least one of the institutions named on the application form.
Applications will be considered ineligible if any of the required documentation is not included by the closing date.
The CSC will not accept supporting documentation submitted outside the online application system.
References must clearly by written by the referee in their own words.
When completing the references, referees should be asked to comment as fully as possible on the applicant, keeping in mind the following points for inclusion, as appropriate:
How long, and in what capacity, the referee has known the applicant.
The referee’s views on the applicant’s suitability for the proposed Scholarship and the need for the particular subject of study in the UK.
Information on how, and to what extent, the applicant has shown ability in terms of:
capability to grasp concepts and reason analytically;
capacity for original thought;
and motivation and perseverance in achieving objectives.
Assessment of the applicant’s particular strengths and weaknesses.
The applicant’s potential to impact development in their home country.
Any other general qualities which the referee considers would make the applicant a good recipient of a Scholarship.
Please note that the CSC does not charge apply for any of its scholarships or fellowships through its online application system.
Supporting statements must clearly by written by the proposed supervisor in their own words.
When completing supporting statements, proposed supervisors should be asked to confirm that they are, in principle, prepared to have the applicant working with them and that they have the facilities to undertake the research. They should also be asked how the applicant’s plan of study fits with the expertise of their department and to indicate how much of the applicant’s plan of study, if any, they wrote, and to confirm that the study programme can be completed within the proposed 36 month tenure. Any additional comments they make will be appreciated by the Commission.
Advice for applicants
Applicants can find general information about applying for a Commonwealth
Scholarship on
our
advice for
applicants
page
.
Choosing a university/course
Applicants may find the following resources useful when researching their choices of institution and course of study in the UK:
Study UK
– British Council website, with guidance for international students and a course and institution search
Steps to Postgraduate Study
– a guide to asking the right questions about taught postgraduate study in the UK
Postgrad.com
– information for postgraduate students, with a course search
Prospects
– information on postgraduate study in the UK
Research Excellent Framework 2021 results
– results of a system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions
UCAS Postgraduate
– guidance on how to find and apply for a postgraduate course
Discover Uni
– the official website for comparing UK higher education course data
UKCISA
(UK Council for International Student Affairs) – advice for international students on choosing a course of study
The CSC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
Applicants can also discover how Commonwealth Alumni are making an impact and leading change across critical development issues by visiting our
development impact stories page
.
Applicant eligibility
To apply for this scholarship, applicants must:
Be a citizen of or have been granted refugee status by an eligible Commonwealth country, or be a British Protected Person.
Be permanently resident in an eligible Commonwealth country.
Be available to start academic studies in the UK by the start of the UK academic year in September 2027.
By September 2027, hold a first degree of at least upper second-class (2:1) honours standard, or a lower second-class degree and a relevant postgraduate qualification (usually a Master’s degree)*.
Not be registered for a PhD, or an MPhil leading to a PhD, before September/October 2026.
Be unable to afford to study in the UK without this scholarship.
Have provided all supporting documentation in the required format.
*The CSC recognises that disabled people have often faced and overcome challenges or barriers in their education journey which have prevented them achieving the academic requirement for a Commonwealth Scholarship. Disabled applicants who can demonstrate their potential to contribute to international development but who do not hold a 2:1 Undergraduate degree may be considered for a contextualised nomination through the Commonwealth Disabled People’s Forum (CDPF) nominator. For more information, please contact CDPF directly using the details on our
NGOs and charitable body nominators page
.
The CSC aims to identify talented individuals who have the potential to make change. We are committed to a policy of equal opportunity and non-discrimination and encourage applications from a diverse range of applicants. For further information on the support available to scholars who share that they have a disability, see the
CSC disability support statement
.
There is no age limit for CSC applications. Applicants are advised to confirm with their employers any age restrictions on leave entitlement they may have in place.
All Commonwealth Scholars commit to returning home following the end of their scholarships to contribute to the development of their home countries. Switching to a graduate or other visa to remain in the UK is not
permitted
.
Eligible Countries
Please note that only candidates from the eligible countries listed below can apply for Commonwealth PhD Scholarships
.
Bangladesh
The Gambia
Kiribati
Lesotho
Malawi
Mozambique
Nigeria
Pakistan
Rwanda
Sierra Leone
Solomon Islands
Sri Lanka
Tanzania
Togo
Tuvalu
Uganda
Zambia
Completing the application form
In the application form, applicants are asked to:
List all undergraduate and postgraduate university qualifications obtained.
List up to 10 publications and prizes.
Provide details of employment history and explain how the experience gained supports and is relevant to the programme to be undertaken in the UK.
List names and positions of three referees who are qualified to comment on both their capacity to benefit from the proposed Scholarship in the UK and their ability to deliver development impact afterwards. One of the referees must be a current employer (if applicable) and at least two references must be included with the application.
Provide a Development Impact statement in four parts.
In the first part applicants should explain how the proposed scholarship relates to:
Development issues at the global, national, and local level
Development issues connected to the chosen CSC development theme and the wider sector
The second part should explain how they intend to apply their new skills once the Scholarship ends.
The third part should outline what they expect will change in development terms following the Scholarship, including:
The outcomes that they aim to achieve
The timeframe for their implementation
Who the beneficiaries will be
In the fourth part applicants should write about how the impact of their work could be best measured and evidenced.
Applicants are also asked to:
Confirm what their award objectives are and how each of them will be met by the Scholarship programme.
Confirm what their career plans are for the 5 years following the Scholarship.
Confirm their long-term career plans.
Provide a detailed plan of study.
Provide a personal statement to summarise the ways in which their personal background has encouraged them to want to make an impact in their home country. Applicants may wish to highlight any areas where they have already made significant contributions, including overcoming personal or community barriers in accessing higher education or within their field.
Summarise the ways in which they have engaged in voluntary activities and the opportunities they have had to demonstrate leadership.
Selection Process and criteria
Applications will be considered according to the following selection criteria:
Candidate merit (including academic experience)
Quality of research proposal
Potential impact on the development of the candidate’s come country
For further details, please refer to the
Commonwealth Scholarships selection criteria
.
Applicants should note the criteria carefully and link their answers in the application form to each point listed.
Tenure and placement
Scholarships are tenable at any approved UK university or higher education institution with which the CSC has a part-funding agreement for a specific programme of research for 36 months of full-time study only. For the full list, see here:
cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/uk-universities
Scholarships are to obtain one degree; funding will not be extended to enable candidates to complete a qualification in addition to or higher than that for which the selection was made.
Scholarships are made in respect of
full-time study only
and no other course of study may be undertaken at the same time.
The CS
C does not support four-year PhDs.
The CSC does not provide new direct financial or promotional support for the fossil fuel energy sector overseas, defined as the extraction, production, transportation, refining and marketing of crude oil, natural gas or thermal coal, as well as any fossil-fuel fired power plants.
Applicants must make clear in the application which qualification they are applying for. This will enable the CSC to consider the application in the correct category. Applications which do not make this clear may be considered ineligible.
Applicants are advised to list three universities and supervisors that they think are the most appropriate for their study, in order of preference, and to explain their reasons. This is important because the CSC will not change the university or supervisor (or the order of preference) of a provisionally selected candidate after the point of selection, unless exceptional information becomes available that could not have been foreseen at the time of application.
It is strongly recommended to
include
a second and third choice in case placement at the first choice is not possible.
If three choices are not included and the CSC are not able to place an applicant at the institutions included, the scholarship will not be able to
proceed
.
The CSC will make the final decision on institution of study, and reserves the right to overrule any preferences indicated by the candidate. The CSC will consider the suitability of the course and its value for money when deciding on any overrule.
Applicants must take the necessary steps to apply for admission to their preferred universities in advance of their scholarship application. Many courses have strict admission deadlines and candidates should check admission requirements carefully when applying. If an applicant is selected for a scholarship and has not applied and been accepted for a course, it may not be possible to proceed with the scholarship.
Applicants must provide a supporting statement for a named supervisor from at least one of the UK universities to which they are applying. Details of what the supporting statement should include are outlined in the supporting documentation section. Applicants are strongly advised to provide a supporting statement from a supervisor at the first choice university. If not, the CSC reserves the right to select for placement at another university for which a statement is provided.
Financial assistance
Each scholarship provides:
Approved airfare from the Scholar’s home country to the UK and return at the end of the award (the CSC will not reimburse the cost of fares for dependants, nor the cost of journeys made before the award is confirmed).
Approved tuition fees: full fees are covered by agreement between the CSC and the UK university, and Scholars are not liable to pay for any part of the tuition fee.
Stipend (living allowance) at the rate of £1,712 per month, or £2,000 per month for those at universities in the London metropolitan area (rates quoted at current levels).
Study travel grant towards the cost of study-related travel within the UK or overseas.
Provision towards the cost of fieldwork undertaken overseas (the cost of one economy class return airfare to the fieldwork location), where approved.
Paid mid-term visit (airfare) to the Scholar’s home country, unless they have claimed or intend to claim spouse and/or child allowances during their scholarship or have received a return airfare to their home country for fieldwork.
Family allowances, as follows (rates quoted at current levels):
If a Scholar is accompanied by their spouse but no children: spouse allowance of £313 per month for a maximum period of nine months, if they and their spouse are living together at the same address in the UK (unless the spouse is also in receipt of a scholarship; other conditions also apply).
If a Scholar is accompanied by their spouse and children: spouse allowance of £313 per month and child allowance of £313 per month for the first child, and £154 per month for the second and third child under the age of 16, if their spouse and children are living with them at the same address in the UK (unless their spouse is also in receipt of a scholarship; other conditions also apply).
If a Scholar has children and is widowed, divorced, or a single parent, child allowance of child allowance of £622 per month for the first child, and £154 per month for the second and third child under the age of 16, if their children are living with them at the same address in the UK.
If a Scholar shares that they have a disability, a full assessment of their needs and eligibility for additional financial support will be offered by the CSC.
The CSC’s family allowances are intended to be only a contribution towards the cost of maintaining a Scholar’s family in the UK.
The true costs are likely to be considerably higher, and Scholars must be able to supplement these allowances to support any family members who accompany them to the UK.
For more information, see the current
Handbook for Commonwealth Scholars and Fellows
.
Please note that the conditions outlined in the Handbook are subject to change.
General conditions
A Commonwealth Scholarship covers fees, approved fares, and personal maintenance. Other scholarships, awards, or bursaries that cover the same costs may not be held concurrently.
For the CSC to administer the application effectively and efficiently after submission, it will be necessary to create a record in the applicant’s name. If they apply for an award to the CSC, their details will be kept on file. Basic anonymised demographic data for all applicants will be kept for analytical research. The CSC is committed to protecting personal information and to being transparent about the information we are collecting about applicants and what we do with it. To find out more, see our
privacy notice
.
Applicant’s personal information will be used to conduct necessary due diligence checks to CSC’s satisfaction, before CSC proceeds with any type of formal agreement or contractual relationship. In most cases, the due diligence checks will be straightforward, however further information may be requested, so we ask for full co-operation to speed up the process.
If an applicant does not agree to personal data being used for the purpose of conducting due diligence, unfortunately CSC will not be able to proceed further with the application process.
If an application is successful, the CSC will notify the applicant that they have been provisionally selected (selected for an award subject to the CSC agreeing terms of admission to the university) at which point they will be a provisional scholarship candidate.
The CSC does not require any applicants to take an IELTS (English language) test.
The CSC will not be able to offer a scholarship if it would contravene the terms and conditions of another scholarship previously held.
When terms of admission to the university have been agreed, the CSC will provide a Notification of Award (formal offer of a scholarship).
When all conditions of the Notification of Award have been met, the CSC will provide a formal Confirmation of Award.
Candidates will be required to submit a Health and Disability Form before the Confirmation of Award can be issued.
Candidates will be required to sign an undertaking to return to their home country as soon as possible after the end of the award.
Candidates are expected to start the award on the date stated in the Notification of Award.
If a candidate requires a Student visa to come to the UK to study, they must meet all relevant immigration requirements set by UK Visas and Immigration. They should check the GOV.UK website for updated information.
All UK immigration regulations are set by UK Visas and Immigration and are subject to change. The CSC has no control over these regulations.
Candidates will be selected for an award based on the plan of study outlined on the application form, which is not expected to change significantly during the award. Any such changes must be agreed by the CSC.
Throughout their award, Scholars are expected to reside in the UK, and must seek approval from the CSC in advance of any overseas travel.
Scholars must not undertake paid employment during the award without approval from the CSC in advance.
Collaboration is a feature of doctoral research. The CSC expects that participants in collaborative projects will develop a collaborative agreement to clarify the contributions and rights of each partner. The CSC will not get involved in negotiating an exploitation agreement but will need to be assured that an arrangement acceptable to all parties exists. Arrangements should be made to identify, protect, and value any arising intellectual property and to secure a suitable return to the institution and the investigators through exploitation. The CSC considers the intellectual property ownership to lie initially with the student; however, many universities have their own locally applicable policy. In many cases, it is in the best interest of a student for ownership to be vested with the university, which will have greater negotiating powers and will be likely to be able to seek the best returns in any exploitation agreement. Award holders are expected to notify the CSC when CSC-funded intellectual property is exploited.
The CSC will consider a request to extend a Scholar’s leave to remain in the UK after their award only if they wish to move from Master’s to PhD study. Strict conditions will apply.
The CSC cannot provide a letter of support or permission for Scholars to remain in or return to the UK after the award to enable them to work or undertake postdoctoral study.
The following are not eligible to apply for a Commonwealth Scholarship or Fellowship; an employee, a former employee, or relative of an employee of the Government of the United Kingdom; or a staff member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities or the British Council; or a Commonwealth Scholarship Commissioner, former Commonwealth Scholarship Commissioner or a relative of a Commonwealth Scholarship Commissioner. Former employees of the organisations listed above are eligible to apply three years after ceasing their employment with them.
In line with the UK Bribery Act 2010, any applicant convicted of bribery will be banned from reapplying for a Commonwealth Scholarship or Fellowship for a period of up to five years.
Applicants are expected to adhere to the CSC’s
Code of Conduct
for award holders and the
Disciplinary Policy and Procedure
.
An award may be terminated at any time for reasons of unsatisfactory conduct, progress, or attendance, or if registration is suspended or terminated by the university for any reason.
The CSC is committed to administering and managing its scholarships and fellowships in a fair and transparent manner. For more information, see the
CSC Anti-Fraud Policy and Procedure
and the
FCDO guidance on reporting fraud
.
The CSC is committed proactively to safeguard and promote the welfare of our beneficiaries, and to protect its staff, Commissioners, beneficiaries and all those with whom the CSC comes into contact. The CSC requires staff, members of the Commission, applicants for and recipients of CSC awards and suppliers to act consistently with its requirements for safeguarding. Applicants should note the
CSC Safeguarding Policy
which sets out the obligation for staff, members of the Commission, applicants for and recipients of CSC awards and suppliers to act consistently with its requirements for safeguarding.
Any safeguarding concerns should be reported to the Commission at:
csc.safeguarding@cscuk.org.uk
All conditions of award are subject to UK local law and practices and are subject to change by the CSC.
For more information, see the current
Handbook for Commonwealth Scholars
. Please note that the conditions outlined in the Handbook are subject to change.
FAQs and enquiries
For general information about applying for Commonwealth Scholarships or Fellowships, please see our
FAQs page.
For queries not covered on the website, please use the
.
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyse our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Reject
Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Duration
Description
lidc
1 day
LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
li_gc
6 months
Linkedin set this cookie for storing visitor's consent regarding using cookies for non-essential purposes.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Duration
Description
CLARITY_ID
Session
Microsoft Clarity - identifies the current session for heatmaps and recordings.
_clck
1 year
Microsoft Clarity - stores a unique user ID to recognise returning visits.
_clsk
1 day
Microsoft Clarity - connects multiple page views into a single session.
_ga
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to calculate visitor, session and campaign data and track site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognise unique visitors.
_ga_*
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to store and count page views.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Duration
Description
bcookie
1 year
LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser IDs.
iutk
6 months
Issuu sets this cookie to recognise the user's device and what Issuu documents have been read.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
Powered by
