=== SOURCE ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/selection-criteria-for-assessment-of-applications/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Selection criteria for assessment of applications - Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK
Selection criteria
This criteria is used for the assessment of FCDO-funded Commonwealth Scholarships tenable in the UK
Candidate Merit
Grading criteria
Primary indicators
• Examination results
• Academic transcripts
• Tutors’ and referees’ reports
Secondary indicators
• Academic prizes or awards
• Other relevant academic achievements
• Publications, where appropriate
• Professional development or training undertaken
• Experience gained through career or professional development
Quality of research proposal (doctoral scholarships)
Grading criteria
Primary indicators
• Clear abstract of what the candidate wants to research
• Extent to which the work programme has been well researched (including references to key literature); and the extent of engagement with the host supervisor
• Quality of the research proposal, including innovation and relevance to current research in the chosen field and to development policy
Secondary indicators
• Clarity of expression
• Feasibility of proposed research
• Likelihood of completion within three years
For Split-Site awards:
• Relevance of work in UK to PhD
• Evidence of strong research link with UK institution
Quality of study plans (master's scholarships)
Grading criteria
Primary indicators
• Statement of what the candidate wants to learn and how it relates to their objectives
• Extent to which the proposed course and institution of study have been well researched (including specific options and dissertation topics, where appropriate) and presented
Secondary indicators
• Existing offer of admission to the course
• Clarity of presentation
Development impact
Grading criteria
Primary indicators
• Extent of the need: how the plan of study/research relates to development in the sector and country
• Expected outcomes, the projected timeframe to achieve them and potential beneficiaries
• The way and extent to which the candidate proposes to apply new skills and qualifications; how does this relate to development
Secondary indicators
• Examples of leadership (including strong communication skills, problem solving, adaptability, strategic thinking)
• Evidence advocacy work
• Volunteering Experience, particularly to the development agenda
• Reference to a national development priority or capacity shortage
• Reference to the selected CSC theme
• Extent of the benefit: how the impact of the work might be measured
• Leading or participating in relevant projects or programmes
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyse our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Reject
Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Duration
Description
lidc
1 day
LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
li_gc
6 months
Linkedin set this cookie for storing visitor's consent regarding using cookies for non-essential purposes.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Duration
Description
CLARITY_ID
Session
Microsoft Clarity - identifies the current session for heatmaps and recordings.
_clck
1 year
Microsoft Clarity - stores a unique user ID to recognise returning visits.
_clsk
1 day
Microsoft Clarity - connects multiple page views into a single session.
_ga
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to calculate visitor, session and campaign data and track site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognise unique visitors.
_ga_*
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to store and count page views.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Duration
Description
bcookie
1 year
LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser IDs.
iutk
6 months
Issuu sets this cookie to recognise the user's device and what Issuu documents have been read.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
Powered by
