=== SOURCE ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/csc-research-impact-awards-2/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
CSC Research Impact Awards - Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK
CSC Research Impact Awards
The CSC Research Impact Awards (RIA) celebrate the research and publication endeavours of Commonwealth Scholars and Alumni at the early and mid-career researcher stages.
The annual awards are offered through two streams and promote the important research undertaken by doctoral Commonwealth Scholars and Alumni and its value to international development.
Offered to current doctoral Scholars and alumni up to 10 years post-thesis submission date, the awards encourage doctoral Scholarship recipients to share their research publications and its application and implementation in a development setting.
One prize will be awarded per stream, with an annual topical prize also available to entrants.
Award streams
The CSC Research Output award stream
seeks to reward research published by current doctoral Commonwealth Scholars and Alumni up to five years post-thesis submission date and the important real-world relevance of this and its potential impact in addressing global challenges related to the entrant’s field of study and home country.
The winner of this stream will receive a conference grant to attend and participate in an academic conference or research event they would otherwise not be able to attend.
The Taylor & Francis CSC Research Implementation and Uptake award stream
, sponsored by
Taylor & Francis
, is open to alumni 6-10 years post-thesis submission date.
This stream seeks to identify and reward published research which has been implemented at a local/national/international level, and to understand its impact in addressing global challenges related to the entrant’s field of study and home country, and broader research uptake.
The winner of this stream will receive a prize of £1,500 and a year’s personal subscription to a Taylor & Francis journal or an e-book of their choice. The winner will also have the opportunity to be interviewed by Taylor & Francis to share their research implementation experience and advice for the benefit of others.
Meet the 2023 winners
Maryam Bashir
Maryam Bashir is the winner of the 2023 CSC Research Output award stream for her article,
Application of Enantioselective Sulfur Ylide Epoxidation to a Short Asymmetric Synthesis of Bedaquiline, a Potent Anti-Tuberculosis Drug
, published in
Organic Letters (American Chemical Society)
. Maryam is a 2020 Split-site Scholar from Pakistan and completed a PhD in Organic Chemistry at the University of Bristol and the University of the Punjab, Lahore.
Cornelius Dodoo
Cornelius Dodoo is the winner of the 2023 Taylor & Francis CSC Research Implementation and Uptake award stream for his article,
Development of a local antibiogram for a teaching hospital in Ghana
, published in
JAC- Antimicrobial Resistance
. Cornelius is a 2010 Shared Scholar and 2013 Commonwealth Scholar from Ghana who gained an MSc in Drug Delivery and a PhD in Pharmacy at University College London School of Pharmacy.
Dr Pradeep Kumar Dammala
Dr Pradeep Kumar Dammala is the winner of the 2023 RIA topical prize for his research addressing the
Earth Day 2023 theme
, Invest in our Planet: act (boldly), innovate (broadly), and implement (equitably). His article,
Offshore wind farms as additional coolant power sources to enhance seismic resilience of nuclear power plants– A case study
, is published in Nuclear Engineering and Design. Dr Dammala is a 2016 Commonwealth Split-site Scholar from India who gained a PhD in Civil Engineering at the University of Surrey and the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati.
Meet the 2022 winners
Mirriam Makungwe
Mirriam Makungwe is the winner of the 2022 CSC Research Output award stream for her article
Assessing land suitability for rainfed paddy rice production in Zambia
, published in
Geoderma Rejional
. Mirriam is a 2019 Split-site Scholar from Zambia and completed a PhD in Integrated Soil Fertility Management at the University of Zambia.
Olajide Olusola
Olajide Olusola is the winner of the 2022 Taylor & Francis CSC Research Implementation and Uptake award stream for his article
Investigating the effect of GaCl3 incorporation into the usual CdCl2 treatment on CdTe-based solar cell device structures
, published in
Current Applied Physics
. Olajide is a 2012 Scholar from Nigeria who gained a PhD in Environmental and Sustainability Systems at Sheffield Hallam University.
Dr David Ikpaya
Dr Ikpaya David Ikpaya is the winner of the 2022 RIA topical prize for his clean energy related-research. His article,
Development of SHACS: Progress on Channel-1 Prototype Demonstrator
, is published in IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing. Dr Ikpaya is a 2017 Rutherford Fellow from Nigeria who gained a Post Doc. in Remote Sensing Instrumentation at the University of Surrey.
Meet the 2021 winners
Dr Dacia Leslie
Dr Dacia Leslie is the winner of the 2021 CSC Research Output award stream for her article
Reassessing Conditions of “Prison” in Jamaica
published in
International Criminal Justice Review
.
Prof M. Shafiq-Ur Rahman
Professor Dr M. Shafiq-Ur Rahman is the winner of the 2021 Taylor & Francis CSC Research Implementation and Uptake award stream for his article
Public bike-sharing schemes (PBSS): Prospects in Bangladesh
published in
Transport Research Part A: Policy and Practice
.
Bovinille Anye Cho
Bovinille Anye Cho is the winner of this year’s annual topical prize for climate change related research for his article
Synergising biomass growth kinetics and transport mechanisms to simulate light/dark cycle effects on photo-production systems
, published in
Biotechnology and Bioengineering
.
How to apply
All those eligible to take part will be informed by email when applications open.
RIA will replace the annual
Taylor & Francis Commonwealth Scholar Best Journal Article Prize
from 2021 onwards.
If you have any questions, please contact
alumni@cscuk.org.uk
.
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyse our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Reject
Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Duration
Description
lidc
1 day
LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
li_gc
6 months
Linkedin set this cookie for storing visitor's consent regarding using cookies for non-essential purposes.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Duration
Description
CLARITY_ID
Session
Microsoft Clarity - identifies the current session for heatmaps and recordings.
_clck
1 year
Microsoft Clarity - stores a unique user ID to recognise returning visits.
_clsk
1 day
Microsoft Clarity - connects multiple page views into a single session.
_ga
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to calculate visitor, session and campaign data and track site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognise unique visitors.
_ga_*
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to store and count page views.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Duration
Description
bcookie
1 year
LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser IDs.
iutk
6 months
Issuu sets this cookie to recognise the user's device and what Issuu documents have been read.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
Powered by
