=== SOURCE ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/about-us/scholarships/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Scholarships and Fellowships - Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK
Scholarships and Fellowships
Our work combines sustainable development with the UK national interest, by supporting innovators and leaders of the future from across the Commonwealth and attracting outstanding talent to the UK’s universities.
Programmes
Disability Support
Women in education
Time Limited Programmes
To date, over 34,000 people have taken up a Commonwealth Scholarship since the first group of 175 Scholars arrived in the UK in 1960. During those six decades, the scheme has constantly developed, adapting to the very different world of a 56-nation Commonwealth of today.
Commonwealth Scholarships act as a catalyst for sustainable development by actively supporting candidates of outstanding ability, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds, based in low and middle income countries.
Commonwealth Scholarships granted since 1960
Scholars from 18 countries were welcomed in the first cohort
Unique scholarship programmes offered to nations across the Commonwealth
The majority of Scholarships are funded by the UK
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)
, with the aim of contributing to the UK’s international development aims and wider overseas interests, supporting excellence in UK higher education, and advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals across a modern Commonwealth.
Programmes
We are aware of an organisation naming themselves the ‘Commonwealth Exchange Scholarship Council’ who have listed various Commonwealth Scholarship programmes (which are funded by FCDO) on its website. Please be aware this is not an official partner organisation for the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission nor the Association of Commonwealth Universities.
With various Commonwealth Scholarship programmes opening for applications over the coming weeks, we would like to remind prospective applicants to use only the official CSC website and systems when applying.
Applications for Commonwealth Scholarships are only managed directly by the CSC. Information about specific programmes can be accessed below.
Please be cautious of third-party websites requesting personal information or supporting documentation. The CSC will never ask applicants to attend in-person screening events as part of its scholarship selection process, and supporting documentation should only be submitted through the official application system.
For low and middle income countries
Master’s Scholarships
Master’s Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development.
Candidates are nominated for this award through a nominating agency.
Read More About the Scholarship
Shared Master’s Scholarships
Shared Master’s Scholarships are offered at selected UK universities for selected courses. The CSC works with these universities to share
the cost of
funding for these awards.
Read More About the Scholarship
Click for Information on UK University bidding
Distance Learning Master’s Scholarships
This programme is currently paused and will not be running in 2026 or 2027.
Distance Learning Master’s Scholarships offer a selection of Master’s courses through participating universities for those who may not be able to travel outside of their country.
Split-site PhD Scholarships
This programme is currently paused and will not be running in 2026 or 2027.
Split-site PhD Scholarships are aimed at graduates
from Commonwealth countries
who have a place at a university in an eligible Commonwealth country with a link to a UK university.
Commonwealth Fellowships
Commonwealth Fellowships provide professionals and academics with the opportunity to enhance knowledge and skills in their given sector, and to have catalytic effects on their workplaces.
Click for information for prospective hosts
Click for information for prospective candidates
Commonwealth Startup Fellowships
Commonwealth Startup Fellowships are designed to fuel high-potential startups from across eligible Commonwealth countries and move them closer to commercial reality.
Read more about the fellowship
For least developed countries and vulnerable states
as classified by the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC)
PhD Scholarships
PhD Scholarships contribute to the development needs of Commonwealth countries by supporting research that will have a developmental impact. Candidates are nominated for this award through a nominating agency.
Read More About the Scholarship
Disability Support
The CSC aims to identify talented individuals who have the potential to become catalysts for positive change in their communities and beyond. We are committed to a policy of equal opportunity and non-discrimination and encourage applications from a diverse range of candidates. Since 2018, the CSC has supported 72 disabled Scholars from 15 countries. Click the button below for further information on the support available to scholars and fellows with a disability.
CSC Disability Support Statement
Women in Education
52% of candidates selected for CSC scholarships (those funded by Overseas Development Assistance funding) in 2021 were female. We work closely with our nominating agencies and university partners to ensure we are offering equal opportunities to all candidates regardless of their gender and that all our partners carry out nominations in a way that ensures an equal gender balance. Our gender policy requires all agencies to work towards nominating at least 45% female and 45% male candidates.
Read Articles on Women in Education
Time Limited Programmes
Since 2018, the CSC has been running unique Time Limited Programmes (TLPs) which sit outside of our main programmes and allow us to respond flexibly to current political or environmental challenges affecting the Commonwealth. These projects run for a one-year period and include a series of activities responding to a specific priority area.
Our Time Limited Programmes
LGBT+ Rights
The CSC believe that no one should be criminalised or persecuted because of who they are, or who they love. We believe that securing equal rights and fair treatment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT+) people is essential to achieving the sustainable development goals and the ‘leave no one behind’ agenda. All LGBT+ people are welcome in the CSC community and we are committed to ensuring all our scholars reach their full potential. We seek to improve the experience for LGBT+ scholars and build an open, tolerant, and understanding community of scholars.
We do not require scholars to share their gender identity or sexual orientation with us, but do give the option to do so. The CSC’s 2023/2024 Time Limited Programme was focussed on LGBT+ Rights, click below to see more about the activities that were held. We work with The Commonwealth Equality Network to offer a route for candidates who would like to study courses which directly improve the position of LGBT+ people. See more on our
NGO Nominators page
.
Visit our new LGBT+ Time Limited Programme
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyse our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Reject
Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Duration
Description
lidc
1 day
LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
li_gc
6 months
Linkedin set this cookie for storing visitor's consent regarding using cookies for non-essential purposes.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Duration
Description
CLARITY_ID
Session
Microsoft Clarity - identifies the current session for heatmaps and recordings.
_clck
1 year
Microsoft Clarity - stores a unique user ID to recognise returning visits.
_clsk
1 day
Microsoft Clarity - connects multiple page views into a single session.
_ga
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to calculate visitor, session and campaign data and track site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognise unique visitors.
_ga_*
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to store and count page views.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Duration
Description
bcookie
1 year
LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser IDs.
iutk
6 months
Issuu sets this cookie to recognise the user's device and what Issuu documents have been read.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
Powered by
