=== SOURCE ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/scholar-community/alumni-and-lifelong-fellowship/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Alumni and Lifelong Fellowship | Rhodes Trust
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open! Click here to learn more.
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open!
Open
Start your Application
The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international scholarship programme in the world, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to undertake full-time postgraduate study at the University of Oxford.
Navigate below to understand each stage of the application process.
1. The Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more about what the Rhodes Scholarship is, the costs covered, and what makes it special.
2. The Selection Criteria
What makes a Rhodes Scholar? Learn about the selection criteria which determined the first Rhodes Scholars in 1902, and still guide us today.
3. Check Your Eligibility and Apply
Find out if you are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, which constituency you should apply through, and start your application!
Frequently Asked Questions
Consult our comprehensive list of FAQs about the Scholarship, funding, eligibility criteria, application process and more.
Alumni and Lifelong Fellowship
‘Lifelong Fellowship’ is a strategic initiative by the Rhodes Trust ​that aims to contribute to Scholars’ learning, service, and impact across every stage of their lives and careers, through a portfolio of programmes that foster cross-generational engagement and support.
Programmes Portfolio
Throughout your journey as a Rhodes Scholar, you will have access to this
vibrant portfolio of
programmes
tailored to different stages and interests in your life
, that presents the opportunity for community building, thematic engagement, learning and development, and volunteering​. The initiative aims to
enhance the capacity of Rhodes Scholars to lead lives of service and achieve positive and lasting change in the world​. We also encourage
joint activities across all partner
programme
s
connected to the Rhodes Trust: Atlantic Fellows, Schmidt Science Fellows, Mandela Rhodes Scholars and Rise, delivering our “Network for Good” vision​.
Regular events run throughout the year both online, hybrid and in person including Convenings, Scholars’ Library events and much more; you can visit the
Event Calendar
or
Rhodes Connect
to find out about upcoming events.
Get Involved!
Welcome Home Weekend
The goal of this three-day residential programme is to introduce soon-to-graduate or recently gone down Scholars to the Rhodes Alumni community and the Global Programmes team and allow them to strengthen their network while leveraging the extended Rhodes community. The weekend also provides Scholars with a platform for reflection on their new life stage, and creates the space for Scholars to exchange insights on future career plans and post-Oxford choices. If you’d like to learn more, please email
alumni@rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk.
Early Careers Launchpad
The Early Careers Launchpad supports Rhodes Scholars in the formative stages of their professional journeys, offering structured opportunities to build skills, networks and confidence as they define and pursue their unique ways of “fighting the world’s fight”. Through a combination of tailored programmes, including Career Weeks, skills 'bootcamps' and more, the Launchpad provides a safe environment for growth, practical career planning support, and exposure to diverse sectors and pathways. A dedicated Resources Hub complements these activities, ensuring Scholars have continued access to tools and guidance as they navigate early career decisions with clarity and purpose. To find out more about the launchpad, please email
alumni@rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk
Mentor Connect
Mentor Connect, our new mentoring platform, brings together the global communities of Rhodes Trust, Atlantic Institute and Rise, to support the creation of meaningful connections and collaboration across networks, geographies, and disciplines. Powered by intelligent matching technology, it brings together Scholars who are eager to learn with mentors who are ready to share
their expertise and guidance. To join the platform as either a mentor or mentee, please email
alumni@rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk
Reunions
Reunions are a fantastic way of re-connecting with Rhodes Classmates and rekindling old friendships. We are very happy to support the organisation of virtual reunions for all years, but in particular would love to help Scholars who are celebrating their 40
th
or 50
th
Reunions in-person at Rhodes House. Are you interested in arranging a Reunion? Find your
Class Leader on Rhodes Connect
or contact
alumni@rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk
We also host a Scholar dinner at Rhodes House in September around the University's Meeting Minds Reunion programme so look out for the dates of those in the Events Calendar.
Sector Connect
These virtual events create the opportunity for Scholars across the globe working or interested in a specific industry to come together to share ideas, and discuss the trends, challenges and opportunities present in that specific sector. Scholars are invited to host breakout room discussions on a topic of their choice. Topics are rotated but include themes such as Healthcare, Finance and Education. Watch out on Rhodes Connect and in the Alumni update emails for the latest events.
Joint Ventures with Alumni Associations
The Trust builds bridges across the community. One example of this is bringing Alumni Associations together, or partnering with them directly to host events. Previous collaborations include with AARS on The Global Economy in the Coming Decade, and ARSA on a Fireside chat with John Bell. These events will be advertised on the website, Rhodes Connect, and the Alumni Update emails.
Oral History Project
Launched on our website in 2025, the
Oral History project
aims to collect and share origin stories from as many Rhodes Scholars as possible. From community activists to politicians we try to showcase a range of personal journeys and paths. If you are part of a pre 2000 Rhodes class and would like to take part please
complete our expression of interest form here
.
Other Virtual and In-person Events
Throughout the year, other virtual events are available for Rhodes Scholars to participate in, such as Town Halls to hear updates from the Trust, or events that are ran by Scholars or Alumni Associations themselves. The Trust also runs in person events LINK and other Scholar get together events around the world. Watch out in the Alumni Update emails, the Rhodes Connect digest and the website for these.
Class Leader
Class Leaders are vital for contacting their classmates to facilitate engagement opportunities, run reunion events and support fundraising efforts and we aim to have at least one Class Leader for every Class year. To find out if you have a Class Leader, or if you would like to learn more and volunteer yourself, please contact Celia Tezel at
alumni@rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk
.
Other Volunteering Opportunities
There are many ways for Scholars to volunteer with the Trust, from providing video content for our 'Scholar Spotlight' series to becoming a facilitator for CSLP retreats or an outreach ambassador. To find out more ways to get involved, please
visit out Volunteering page
.
Connect with like-minded Scholars
You can find Scholars with the same interests or experiences as you by using our Scholars Directory in
Rhodes Connect.
Rhodes Connect is the online home for the Rhodes community. Open to all Scholars in Residence and Alumni Scholars, it a vibrant online space for collaboration, discussion and socialising. Sign up today and use the platform to find out about upcoming events, connect with Scholars in interest-based groups and make new connections.
You can also find Scholars who are in the same geographical area as you by using
Rhodes Connect’s Scholar map
.
Meet Locally
Alumni Associations are a fantastic way to connect with Rhodes Scholars in your local area. To find out more about existing associations, visit our
webpage
. If an association does not exist in your area, you may be interested in starting one yourself. Email
alumni@rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk
and we would be happy to support you to do so.
Give Back
There are many ways in which you can volunteer for the Rhodes Trust and our partner organisations, find out more on our
volunteering webpages.
Let us know your thoughts
To ensure that our programmes and events as impactful and valuable for alumni as possible, we formed the Global Alumni Advisory Board. The aim of the board is to provide the Rhodes Trust with advice, guidance and feedback on how the Trust can further and better its engagement and relationship with Rhodes Scholar Alumni for the benefit of all.
Read Alumni FAQs
Rhodes Email Forwarding Service
We offer all alumni the opportunity to create a life-long Rhodes Trust forwarding email address, allowing you to stay connected with your Rhodes colleagues wherever life's journey may take you. Once registered, you will be assigned a Rhodes email address in the format: firstname.lastname.year@rhodestrust.com. All emails sent to this address will be forwarded to your personal email address.
How to sign up:
Complete the form
by entering your name, personal email address and chosen password, then click “Register”. Pending approval, your account will be activated.
Read Email Forwarding Service FAQs
Connect with Rhodes
LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
TikTok
Bluesky
YouTube
Get Involved
Give Now
Leave a Legacy
Volunteer
