=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/fellowships/host-a-fellowship/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Host a Chevening Fellowship | Chevening
Skip to content
Host a Chevening Fellowship
In this section
The programme creates a network of influencers and decision makers who have a lasting positive disposition towards the UK, its universities, and notable institutions. Fellows are mid-career leaders and influencers, with significant standing in their home countries and will usually have already completed some elements of higher education. Hosting a fellowship enables closer connections between the FCDO, Chevening’s global partners, and an extensive alumni network of more than 60,000 individuals.
Hosting a Chevening Fellowship will enable you to:
Support your university/institution’s strategic goals by offering tailored opportunities in line with your international or academic priorities
Raise your profile in key markets through Chevening’s targeted marketing campaigns across a number of opportunities
Diversify and support the capacity of your institution in an international dialogue on key global issues
Extend your network of contacts by joining Chevening’s network of contacts including global alumni, a growing range of host universities/institutions, and partner organisations
Increase your global impact through Chevening’s worldwide reach, capitalising on our physical presence in more than 140 countries and territories as well as our digital reach; our website and social media channels are visited by millions of people.
Universities and institutions hosting Chevening Fellowships have the opportunity to design bespoke short courses, research tenures, and training opportunities which showcase the institution’s strengths in academia, research, and professional training and development.
If you are a representative of an organisation interested in finding out more about hosting a Chevening Fellowship, please
contact the Fellowships team
.
Current hosts:
British Library
CLORE Leadership Programme
Coventry University
Cranfield Defence Academy
King’s College London
London School of Economics
University of Dundee
University of Oxford
University of Westminster
Open tenders:
The Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office periodically invites organisations that meet certain criteria to participate in a tending exercise in order to host a new or existing fellowship programme.
There are currently no open invitations to tender.
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
