=== SOURCE ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/scholarships/key-facts-about-the-rhodes-scholarship/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Key Facts about the Rhodes Scholarship | Rhodes Trust
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open! Click here to learn more.
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open!
Open
Start your Application
The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international scholarship programme in the world, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to undertake full-time postgraduate study at the University of Oxford.
Navigate below to understand each stage of the application process.
1. The Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more about what the Rhodes Scholarship is, the costs covered, and what makes it special.
2. The Selection Criteria
What makes a Rhodes Scholar? Learn about the selection criteria which determined the first Rhodes Scholars in 1902, and still guide us today.
3. Check Your Eligibility and Apply
Find out if you are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, which constituency you should apply through, and start your application!
Frequently Asked Questions
Consult our comprehensive list of FAQs about the Scholarship, funding, eligibility criteria, application process and more.
You are here : Scholarships >
Key Facts about the Rhodes Scholarship
Key Facts about the Rhodes Scholarship
The Rhodes Scholarship is a postgraduate award to support outstanding people from around the world to study at the University of Oxford. Established in 1902, it is the oldest international graduate scholarship programme in the world.
We now award over 100 Scholarships each year. The Scholarship covers all fees and a stipend for two to three years, with over 300 Rhodes Scholars in Residence in Oxford at one time. Students from around the world can apply.
Rhodes Scholars may study almost any full-time postgraduate course at the University of Oxford and are distributed across 35 of Oxford’s 38 colleges.
Over 8,000 Rhodes Scholars have gone on to serve at the forefront of government, education, the arts, NGOs, commerce, research, journalism, and other sectors. They include well known advocates for social justice and individuals who have advanced the frontiers of science and medicine.
Our Alumni include Nobel Prize laureates, PEN/Faulkner awardees, Pulitzer Prize winners, heads of state, university presidents and vice-chancellors, High Court judges, leaders of major organisations such as Greenpeace, Amnesty International, and Oxfam, and much more.
20 percent of our Scholars in residence are Black, and over half are People of Colour. The Trust makes an important contribution to Oxford University’s aim to increase the diversity of its postgraduate population, particularly in relation to Black students, and we are committed to continuing to partner with the University to pursue this goal.
We believe we have a particular responsibility to reach out to Africa and across the Global South, because the Rhodes Trust was founded with the legacy of Cecil Rhodes’ colonialist career.
20 Scholarships are currently awarded annually to students in Africa through 6 constituencies: East Africa, Kenya, Southern Africa (including South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia and eSwatini), West Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Information for Academic Advisors
As an academic advisor, you are uniquely placed to help your students pursue the Rhodes Scholarship.
Information for Academic Advisors
Find out more
Guidance for Referees
References are a crucial part of the selection process, and can significantly influence application outcome.
Guidance for Referees
Find out more
Institutional Certifications & Endorsements
An institutional endorsement is a mandatory prerequisite of the Rhodes Scholarship application in Canada and the United States.
Institutional Certifications & Endorsements
Find out more
Outreach Resources
Help us spread the word about the Rhodes Scholarship and reach talented people from around the world.
Outreach Resources
Find out more
Connect with Rhodes
LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
TikTok
Bluesky
YouTube
Get Involved
Give Now
Leave a Legacy
Volunteer
