=== SOURCE ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/scholar-community/support-for-scholar-protesters-and-activists/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Support for Scholar Protesters and Activists | Rhodes Trust
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open! Click here to learn more.
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open!
Open
Start your Application
The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international scholarship programme in the world, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to undertake full-time postgraduate study at the University of Oxford.
Navigate below to understand each stage of the application process.
1. The Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more about what the Rhodes Scholarship is, the costs covered, and what makes it special.
2. The Selection Criteria
What makes a Rhodes Scholar? Learn about the selection criteria which determined the first Rhodes Scholars in 1902, and still guide us today.
3. Check Your Eligibility and Apply
Find out if you are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, which constituency you should apply through, and start your application!
Frequently Asked Questions
Consult our comprehensive list of FAQs about the Scholarship, funding, eligibility criteria, application process and more.
Support for Scholar Protesters and Activists
The Rhodes Trust encourages our Scholars to respectfully share, debate and challenge a wide range of views and positions. Free, open and robust discussion is essential in our unlikeminded yet like-hearted community, as outlined in the Trust’s
Freedom of Speech Policy
. Whilst we support the right of Scholars to protest, the Trust also has a responsibility to maintain a safe, effective, and welcoming environment for all Scholars, staff, and visitors in Rhodes House. A demonstration or protest may interfere with the ability to keep those in Rhodes House feeling safe and secure, and therefore, the Trust subscribes to the
Guidance
on demonstrations and protests issued by the University of Oxford.
At the Rhodes Trust we select - and will continue to select - Scholars who are impatient with the way things are and committed to Standing Up for the World. We support all of our Scholars and emphatically affirm their right to speak their minds, protest, mobilise and criticise – including their right to criticise Cecil John Rhodes and his legacy, or the Rhodes Trust itself.
No Scholar will be disadvantaged or have their scholarship removed because of principled positions, including criticising Rhodes privately or publicly. Our Scholars are exceptional, talented, and passionate people fighting to create a more just and equal world. Indeed, many important steps in the history of the Rhodes Scholarships which have made us a better and more inclusive institution and community were the result of criticisms and Scholar protests.
Within our global community of Rhodes Scholars we celebrate the achievements of the many activists who are forging positive impact in struggles against intersecting forms of social inequity, incorporating race, LGBTQIA+, disability, gender-related and other injustices. We stand in solidarity with those who act courageously to create change.
We strongly condemn anyone who subjects our Scholars - or any Scholar - to racist and hateful attacks. We encourage Scholars who are experiencing mistreatment to reach out for support. We are working to strengthen our practices and resources for supporting Scholars experiencing threats or harassment because they speak out on issues or are involved in activism. We will continue to be in dialogue with our Scholar community so we can listen, learn and act.
Published July 2020, last revised January 2025.
While our Scholars are leaders and activists, the Trust is not an activist organisation. To read the Trust's Policy on Public Statements
click here
.
Connect with Rhodes
LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
TikTok
Bluesky
YouTube
Get Involved
Give Now
Leave a Legacy
Volunteer
