=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/scholarships/find-a-course/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Find a course | Chevening
Skip to content
Find a course
Trying to find the right courses for your Chevening Scholarship application? Our course finder is here to make your search easier.
In this section
Selecting the right courses at the right universities is one of the most important aspects of your application. Use this course finder tool to search for eligible master’s degree programmes at every university across the UK*.
Your Chevening application must list three courses, and they must be
courses that are eligible
for a Chevening Scholarship.
You will need to apply separately for your course via the university that runs the course. Your Chevening application does not constitute an application to your chosen courses.
Can't find your course?
*The course information displayed in the finder is supplied by
Postgrad Solutions
. This data is regularly updated but, due to evolving course offerings at universities, it may not always be 100% accurate at the time of search. Candidates are responsible for checking that the courses they list in their application
meet the criteria for Chevening funding.
The Secretariat completes final checks on courses that candidates have selected following the interview period, and any courses that do not meet the criteria will be deemed ineligible. Please also check individual university websites for more information.
Only courses that are UK-based, full-time, start in the autumn term, and lead to a taught master’s qualification are eligible for a Chevening Scholarship, therefore only courses that have been deemed eligible will appear. Read more about
eligible courses here
.
Our analysis of your queries shows that most ‘missing’ courses are actually already in the database, so here are some top tips for checking. Please only submit a query if you’ve followed these guidelines and are still sure that your course is missing.
Check that you are searching for the name of the course, and not the name of the department or the faculty.
Check you have spelled the name of the course correctly.
Courses at Chevening Partner universities and advertisers appear first in alphabetic order. Please search through further pages, or refine your search if you can’t initially see what you’re looking for.
Ineligible courses will not appear in the search.
If you have followed these steps are are still unable to find a course that you believe should be eligible, please submit a missing course report.
Tell us about a missing course
Eligible courses
Eligible courses
You will need to select three different master's courses. Find out which courses are eligible and why.
Report a missing course
Report a missing course
If you are sure that the course you're looking for is eligible and missing from our database, let us know
Choosing the right course
Choosing the right course
Everything you need to know about university applications when applying to Chevening
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
