=== SOURCE ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/scholarships/outreach-resources/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Outreach Resources | Rhodes Trust
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open! Click here to learn more.
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open!
Open
Start your Application
The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international scholarship programme in the world, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to undertake full-time postgraduate study at the University of Oxford.
Navigate below to understand each stage of the application process.
1. The Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more about what the Rhodes Scholarship is, the costs covered, and what makes it special.
2. The Selection Criteria
What makes a Rhodes Scholar? Learn about the selection criteria which determined the first Rhodes Scholars in 1902, and still guide us today.
3. Check Your Eligibility and Apply
Find out if you are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, which constituency you should apply through, and start your application!
Frequently Asked Questions
Consult our comprehensive list of FAQs about the Scholarship, funding, eligibility criteria, application process and more.
You are here : Scholarships >
Outreach Resources
Outreach Resources
Help us spread the word about the Rhodes Scholarship and reach talented people from around the world! If you would like to share this opportunity with your institution, faculty, or students, the resources below are available to download and distribute freely.
Download all Rhodes Scholarship outreach materials
How we can support your institution
The Rhodes Scholarship Outreach team offers a range of opportunities for academic advisors, institutions and students to learn more about the Rhodes Scholarship application journey.
We host public & constituency-specific webinars throughout the year, in collaboration with our Outreach Ambassadors — current Rhodes Scholars studying at Oxford who bring first-hand insight into the application and selection processes. Sessions typically cover an introduction to the Rhodes Scholarship, guidance on key application documents, an overview of the Rhodes Scholar experience, and a Q&A for prospective applicants to clarify doubts and concerns.
If you would like to invite us to run an Information Session (for academic advisors or students) at your institution, please write to us at
outreach@rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk
.
Information Session for Academic Advisors
Watch our recorded webinar below about how institutions can support students in preparing to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship.
Information Sessions for Students
Opportunities to hear from current Rhodes Scholars about their Rhodes Scholarship application journey and Oxford experience.
We host constituency-specific webinars for students throughout the year, in collaboration with our Outreach Ambassadors — current Rhodes Scholars studying at Oxford who bring first-hand insight into the application and selection processes. Sessions typically cover an introduction to the Rhodes Scholarship, guidance on key application documents, an overview of the Rhodes Scholar experience, and a Q&A for prospective applicants to clarify doubts and concerns.
View our schedule of upcoming information sessions
List of all resources available to download
Presentations
For Academic Advisors
For Students
Flyers
A4 Portrait (Oxford)
A4 Landscape (Rhodes)
A4 Landscape (Scholars)
Related pages
Information Sessions
Learn more about the Rhodes Scholarship and application process at our webinars for prospective applicants and academic advisors.
Information Sessions
Find out more
Key Facts about the Rhodes Scholarship
Established in 1902, the Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international graduate scholarship programme in the world.
Key Facts about the Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more
Information for Academic Advisors
As an academic advisor, you are uniquely placed to help your students pursue the Rhodes Scholarship.
Information for Academic Advisors
Find out more
Institutional Certifications & Endorsements
An institutional endorsement is a mandatory prerequisite of the Rhodes Scholarship application in Canada and the United States.
Institutional Certifications & Endorsements
Find out more
Connect with Rhodes
LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
TikTok
Bluesky
YouTube
Get Involved
Give Now
Leave a Legacy
Volunteer
