=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/scholarships/eligibility/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Chevening eligibility criteria | Chevening
Skip to content
Chevening eligibility criteria
You must meet our eligibility criteria to apply for a Chevening Scholarship. Ineligible applications will be rejected.
In this section
To be eligible for a Chevening Scholarship you must:
Be a citizen of a
Chevening-eligible country or territory
.
If applying for an award from an ODA-eligible country, be resident in an ODA-eligible country. This does not have to be the country of citizenship, but all applicants must show a clear intention to support their country of award.
If you live in a European overseas territory, you may apply through the relevant Chevening award scheme for the European country of which you are a citizen.
Commit to returning to your home country (country of award) for at least two years after your scholarship ends.
Have at least two years’
work experience
, acquired after completing your undergraduate degree, equivalent to 2,800 hours.
Hold an undergraduate degree that qualifies you for a UK master’s programme. You must have finished your undergraduate studies at least two years before
our application deadline
, even if you have not yet received your certificate. However, you will need to have your certificate by the time of your interview.
Apply to three different and eligible
UK university courses
. You must have received an unconditional offer from at least one of these course choices by the deadline listed on the
application timeline
.
You are not eligible for a Chevening Scholarship if you:
Hold British or dual British citizenship (unless you are a citizen of a British Overseas Territory or hold BN(O) and are applying from Hong Kong).
Hold refugee status in a country not eligible for Chevening. However, if you are a citizen of an eligible country and hold refugee status in another eligible country, you are eligible for a scholarship.
Are resident in the UK at the time of application (excluding the British Overseas Territories).
Are an employee, an immediate relative* of an employee, or a former employee (within the last two years, from the opening of Chevening applications) of a government department, the British Council, a partner UK university, or any of their wholly owned subsidiaries. Individuals contracted to work on any British Council programme or project, and their relatives, are ineligible.
Have previously studied in the UK on a UK government-funded scholarship (Applicants for a Chevening Scholarship who have previously received UK Government funding through a Chevening Fellowship may apply for a scholarship only after five years have passed since completing their fellowship).
Please note that having a master’s degree does not prevent you from applying for a second master’s degree in the UK.
Read our eligibility criteria for Chevening Fellowships
*
Immediate relatives are defined as parents or step-parents, siblings or step-siblings, children or step-children, spouse, civil partner or unmarried (where the couple have been in a relationship akin to marriage or civil partnership for at least two years).
Are you ready to apply?
Take our eligibility quiz to check.
Are you ready?
Are you ready to apply to Chevening?
Take our quiz to find out!
Preparing your Chevening Scholarship application
Application criteria
References
Using the online application system
Common application errors
Applications for Chevening Scholarships are now open!
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
