=== SOURCE ===
https://www.sbfi.admin.ch/sbfi/en/home/education/scholarships-and-grants/swiss-government-excellence-scholarships.html

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.sbfi.admin.ch/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Swiss Government Excellence Scholarships 2027 – 2028
Service
Swiss Government Excellence Scholarships 2027 – 2028
Each year the Swiss Confederation awards Government Excellence Scholarships to encourage international exchange and research cooperation between Switzerland and over 180 other countries. Recipients are selected by the awarding body, the Federal Commission for Scholarships for Foreign Students (FCS aka ESKAS).
Warning against fake scholarship offers using the name of the Swiss Government (Phishing)
The State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation issues this warning against fake Swiss Federal Government Scholarships advertised by e-mail or published on social medias. Through these fake scholarship offers, crooks try to lead their victims to money transfers (under the pretext of visa and social insurance costs for example).
The Swiss Federal Commission for Scholarships (FCS) recommends never to answer to these e-mails and above all not to send any money. Please note that the application for a Swiss Government Scholarship is free of charge.
What it's all about
Swiss Government Excellence Scholarships are mainly intended for talented early career researchers (ECRs) from abroad who have already completed their Master's degree. The scholarship programme is currently open to applicants from 183 countries.
Scholarship Types Overview
(max. age: 35 / funding: CHF 2450.--/month)
Research scholarships
These scholarships are available to postgraduate researchers in any discipline wishing to pursue research at any Swiss cantonal university, university of applied sciences, either of Switzerland’s two federal institutes of technology (ETHZ or EPFL) or at one of the four research institutes within the ETH Domain (PSI, WSL, Empa, Eawag). Prerequisite: the scholarship application must be backed by an academic supervisor in Switzerland who is willing to direct and guide the applicant’s proposed research.
Research scholarships
Art scholarships
Art scholarships are open to students wishing to pursue an initial Master’s degree in an artistic field in Switzerland. This scholarship is available to students from a limited number of countries only.
Art scholarships
Applying for a Swiss Government Excellence Scholarship
Information on application deadlines and scholarship available by country of origin will be published here in August 2026.
Interested?
Applications are open starting August 20, 2026.
Here
you will find useful information on how to prepare your scholarship application.
After applying
Selection
Applications are submitted to Swiss diplomatic representations. The FCS assesses scholarship applications according to three criteria.
Candidate profile
Quality of the research project or artistic work
Synergies and potential for future research cooperation
Awards
By the end of May at the latest, the FCS will announce its decisions regarding the scholarship awards for the following academic year.
Outlook
Scholarships for the 2028–2029 academic year will be advertised online from August 2027.
Applicable legislation (in German)
Bundesgesetz über Stipendien an ausländische Studierende und Kunstschaffende in der Schweiz
Verordnung über Stipendien für ausländische Studierende und Kunstschaffende in der Schweiz
Verordnung des WBF über die Vergabe von Stipendien an ausländische Studierende und Kunstschaffende in der Schweiz
Verordnung über die Informationssysteme im Berufsbildungs- und im Hochschulbereich (IBH-V)
Links
E2-news: Scholarships as a career booster
Social Media
X: Swiss Government Excellence Scholarships for foreign scholars and artists
YouTube: Swiss Government Excellence Scholarships
Index
What it's all about
Research scholarships
Art scholarships
Applying for a Swiss Government Excellence Scholarship
Interested?
After applying
Applicable legislation (in German)
Links
Social Media
Service
Swiss Government Excellence Scholarships at a Glance
The following information is intended for individuals interested in applying for a Swiss Government Excellence Scholarship. Here you find all the details needed to prepare your scholarship application. Applications are open here starting August 20, 2026.
More about «Swiss Government Excellence Scholarships at a Glance»
FAQ for interested applicants and for academic supervisors
Here you will find answers to the most frequently asked questions from interested applicants and academic supervisors.
More about «FAQ for interested applicants and for academic supervisors»
State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation SERI
ESKAS
sgs@sbfi.admin.ch
