=== SOURCE ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/commonwealth-shared-scholarship-university-applications/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Commonwealth Shared Scholarship – University bids - Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK
Commonwealth Shared Scholarship –
University bids
Overview
How to bid
Bidding requirements
Recruitment and selection
Candidate eligibility
Eligible Commonwealth countries
Financial commitment and branding
Scholarship tenure and return home
Welfare
Enquiries
Overview
Commonwealth Shared Scholarships are for candidates from low- and middle-income Commonwealth countries, for full-time Master’s study in the UK on selected one-year courses, jointly supported by UK universities.
Funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), Commonwealth Shared Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required to support sustainable development and are aimed at those who could not otherwise afford to study in the UK.
These scholarships are offered under the
CSC development themes
.
The bidding process is for UK universities to submit courses to the CSC for approval to host Commonwealth Shared Scholars. Applications for candidates will open later in the year once these courses are confirmed.
How to bid
Bidding for the 2026/2027 awards is closed.
We expect to notify successful universities of their
allocated
awards by early November and for candidate applications to open soon after, closing in mid-
December.
If you have any questions about Commonwealth Shared Scholarships or the bidding process, please contact the CSC Secretariat at
shared.scholarships@cscuk.org.uk
.
Bidding requirements
UK universities are invited to bid for
up to ten Commonwealth Shared Scholarships
to be offered in the 2027/28 academic year. Preference will be given to bids with at least two scholarships, although bids for one award will still be considered.
The CSC is not always able to offer the maximum number of scholarships for which a university bids. It is normal practice for the CSC to offer one scholarship to universities that are new to the programme or that have not taken part in the last three years.
Universities may put forward
up to eight courses
in the bid. These courses must be
individually named
, not by department; bids for subject areas will not be accepted.
The CSC currently expects to allocate around 180 new Commonwealth Shared Scholarships for 2027/28. Scholarships are for one-year taught courses at postgraduate level and are not for research degrees or undergraduate study.
You are requested to indicate in the course statement whether the course is newly established for this coming year; we will only consider two scholars are allocated to a course where this is the case. Where a course has multiple pathways, whether through optional courses or a modular structure, please identify which are best suited to CSC Scholars and provide reasons within the bid so that this can considered within the grading.
Institution and course content statements
Universities are asked for a statement on the institution’s overall strategy for working with the CSC. This is expected to demonstrate their overall strategy of working with CSC scholars and the aims of the CSC scholarship programmes.
Evidence could be provided in relation to relevant policies, strategies and relevant innovations such as:
Targeted advertising of the courses in eligible Commonwealth countries
Institutional research/training partnerships with eligible countries or institutions/organisations within eligible countries
Successful university-wide recruitment of Scholars from eligible countries
Pre-course assessment of student learning/welfare needs
General learning/IT support for graduates
Targeted learning/IT support structures for scholars from eligible countries (e.g., on arrival/induction)
General welfare support for graduates
Targeted welfare support for CSC scholars
Tracking destinations of CSC scholars
Extra funding or financial support for eligible CSC scholars. (e.g., digital resources, benefaction)
The form also asks for information on:
How the institution will advertise and undertake recruitment for the scholarships
Any eligibility criteria in addition to the Commission’s own criteria which will be used for recruitment
Where the funding for the awards will come from (i.e., whether from central university funds or from an external source)
As Commonwealth Shared Scholars are funded by the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO),
subjects of study must be demonstrably developmental in nature.
Institutions are asked to provide a statement outlining each course and explaining its direct and applied relevance to one of the Commission’s six CSC Development themes as well as to eligible countries.
The course statements will be graded under three categories:
1.
Course content
, where our Commission will look for:
Focus on the course content (with descriptions) on the conditions, problems, opportunities in eligible countries
Course development which directly addresses concerns of eligible countries identified, for example, by previous students, partnerships with such countries, and research programmes
Professional validation and/or accreditation for the course
Benefaction for the course
2.
Recruitment and learning opportunities
, where our Commission will look for:
Recruitment figures from previous years showing country of origin, gender, disability
Targeting course recruitment strategies for scholars from eligible countries generally or from specific partner countries or institutions within them
An assessment at admissions of Scholars’ prior interests in promoting development; for example: in professional, political, socio-cultural, economic and technological spheres or in academic research
Faculty or course-based learning support for scholars from eligible countries
Opportunities to build upon and develop Scholars’ knowledge of their own country context and how knowledge or skills might be applied to that context during or after the course of study
Project/research work where Scholars analyse and develop their knowledge and skills on a topic of direct relevance to their home country
Opportunities for Scholars to participate in international/national research-based projects in eligible countries and/or professional agencies/networks associated with a particular course with the potential to be carried forward when they return home
3.
Evaluations of development impact
where our Commission will look for:
Examples of alumni employment destinations and of the impact or intended impact (for new entries) of the particular Master’s course
Case studies of Scholars who have attended the course and have been successful in promoting development initiatives or new research/teaching
Scholar feedback on, or evaluation data from the course or particular modules
Only courses which do not require further study, training, or employment in the UK, including courses with industry placements, are eligible. MBA courses will be supported only in exceptional circumstances where a direct development focus and aim can be demonstrated.
Universities must also provide a link to the key modules within each course in their bid.
Only universities in receipt of UK Government grant funding are eligible to bid for Commonwealth Shared Scholarships.
Development statement – dos and dont’s
Do
Provide strong evidence why the course is particularly relevant to eligible Commonwealth countries
Be specific about how the course content can be applied to ensure development impact especially for eligible countries
Identify vocational skill training that is particularly relevant to CSC Scholars
Demonstrate how the course has had or could have a development impact on the Scholar’s home country when they return
Explain how the course links to the chosen CSC development theme
Provide examples of the course or university’s record in development, where applicable
Consult with the course leaders when writing the statements
Identify relevant pathways through a modular structure for CSC Scholars
Provide links to core modules in each course
Check that the statements are complete and correct before submitting the bid
Don’t
Use the same statement for each course
Use generic course descriptions; these will not be considered
Rely on the name of the course to demonstrate its developmental nature
Copy and paste course information from the university website
Recruitment and selection
Universities that are successful at the bidding stage will be notified which courses and how many scholarships have been approved by the CSC.
The CSC will issue a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to universities that will confirm the conditions of the scholarship as well as the responsibilities of the CSC and of the university. MoUs are renewed every three years. Placement cannot go ahead until the CSC receives the signed MoU.
All candidates must apply via CSC’s online application form and universities must use the CSC’s application form to nominate candidates. Candidates are to apply for a place on the university course separately through the university’s own admissions application process.
The list of eligible courses for 2027/28 Commonwealth Shared Scholarships will be published on the CSC website, with university contact details, in November 2026.
Applications for 2027/28 Commonwealth Shared Scholarships are scheduled to open in early November 2026 and close in mid-December 2026. Exact opening and closing dates will be given nearer the time along with the full timetable for the nominations process taking place in early 2027.
It is the responsibility of universities to conduct their own recruitment of candidates as they see fit in an open and transparent manner and with reference to the
CSC Anti-Fraud Policy and Procedure
.
The CSC aims to identify talented individuals who have the potential to make change. We are committed to a policy of equal opportunity and non-discrimination and encourage applications from a diverse range of candidates. For further information on the support available to candidates with a disability, see the
CSC disability support statement
. The CSC asks universities to continue positively to encourage women to apply for Commonwealth Shared Scholarships.
The profile of Commonwealth Shared Scholarships has continued to prove very popular in recent years and the CSC is committed to supporting universities to manage recruitment and selection. As part of this, we would like to highlight the option for universities to state a regional or country preference in the bidding form; this should ensure you receive a more focused set of applications.
Candidate eligibility
Candidates are expected to hold a first degree at either first class or upper-second class level, or at lower-second class level plus a Master’s degree. The CSC cannot assess work experience in lieu of this minimum academic qualification.
Pre-sessional English courses are not supported by this programme. Universities must therefore confirm that candidates are sufficiently fluent in written and oral English to pursue their studies immediately and ensure that they meet the English language requirement set by UK Visas and Immigration.
To apply for these scholarships, candidates must:
Be a citizen of or have been granted refugee status by an eligible Commonwealth country, or be a British Protected Person.
Be permanently resident in an eligible Commonwealth country.
Be available to start their academic studies in the UK by the start of the UK academic year in September/October 2027.
By October 2027, hold a first degree of at least upper second class (2:1) standard, or a second-class degree and a relevant postgraduate qualification (usually a Master’s degree).
Not have studied or worked for one (academic) year or more in a high income (as defined by the OECD) country (for CSC purposes this is classified as a country
which does not appear
on the
DAC list of ODA recipients
).
Be unable to afford to study in the UK without this scholarship (note the university may be asked to state its procedures for verifying applicants’ financial status).
Commit to return to their home country before the end of their UK visa.
These eligibility criteria are current as of August 2026 and are subject to minor changes.
Eligible Commonwealth countries
(Please see list of eligible countries below as stated in the most recent
DAC list
published in 2025)
Bangladesh
Belize
Botswana
Dominica
Eswatini
Fiji
Gabon
The Gambia
Ghana
Grenada
Guyana
India
Jamaica
Kenya
Kiribati
Lesotho
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mauritius
Montserrat
Mozambique
Namibia
Nauru
Nigeria
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Rwanda
Saint Helena
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
Sierra Leone
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Sri Lanka
Tanzania
Togo
Tonga
Tuvalu
Uganda
Vanuatu
Zambia
The CSC is keen to ensure a good geographical spread of these awards and encourages recruitment from countries under-represented in UK higher education.We request that no more than 50% of nominations for each university are from Ghana, India, Nigeria and Pakistan.
Individuals from Cameroon are currently not eligible to apply for a UK student visa.
Financial commitment and branding
Commonwealth Shared Scholarships are jointly financed by the CSC and host universities. Any contribution towards the university’s share of the scholarship costs must come from the university’s own funds or from an organisation whose mission and aims are in line with those of the CSC. All documentation and promotional material must recognise that Commonwealth Shared Scholarships are jointly funded by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK (CSC) and the university.
Commonwealth Shared Scholars must not be asked to contribute to the university element of the scholarship. Any university expecting a Shared Scholar to do this will render themselves liable to repayment of the tuition fee to the CSC and exclusion from the programme in future years.
The
CSC
will pay the following (on receipt of an invoice and relevant supporting documentation from the university):
Course tuition fees up to a cap of £22,500
Airfares to and from the UK, booked in line with CSC’s travel policy
Grant to contribute to study-related costs
Tuberculosis test fees at a pre-determined amount set by the CSC where required by UK Visas and Immigration
Excess baggage allowance on return home up to the specific rate as set by the CSC
Disability Support Allowance for personal living costs (if eligible)
For Scholars with children who are widowed, divorced, or a single parent, child allowance of £622 ​per month for the first child, and £154 per month for the second and third child under the age of 16 (at current rate)
The costs of any compulsory field trips or bench fees should be included in the tuition fee; the CSC will not cover any additional costs beyond the listed course tuition fee.
The university is expected to provide at least the following level of support (current figures; updated figures will be available in advance of the academic year):
Stipend (living allowance) at the rate of £1712 per month, or £2000 per month for Scholars at universities in the London metropolitan area, which must be paid for the full duration of the scholarship.
These amounts are set by the UK Government for all students on government-funded scholarships. If universities provide free accommodation in lieu of part of the stipend payment, they must ensure that family accommodation is available if required by a Commonwealth Shared Scholar. All Commonwealth Shared Scholars must have commenced their award in the UK for stipend to be paid.
Scholarship tenure and return home
Commonwealth Shared Scholarships are tenable for one year and cannot be extended or renewed.
All Commonwealth Shared Scholars are required to return to their home country before the end of their UK visa. No permission will be given to defer the homeward airfare, except where a Scholar has secured an offer of PhD study in the UK with full funding for three years of study from a university or recognised scholarship body. In such cases, if the Shared Scholarship host university agrees, the CSC will allow the Scholar to remain in the UK and will issue a ‘no objection’ letter to support their visa application. Scholars are not eligible for a Graduate visa.
Welfare
The university is responsible for managing the welfare of Commonwealth Shared Scholars while they are on award. While the CSC pays for tuition fees, the university must pay for living allowances and provide any additional funding necessary to support the welfare of Scholars. This includes supporting Scholars with disabilities and funding any academic related reasonable adjustments that are required. If a Commonwealth Shared Scholar requires additional support in their personal life and they declare a disability to the CSC, a full assessment of their needs and eligibility for additional financial support will be offered by the CSC.
Enquiries
If you have any questions about Commonwealth Shared Scholarships or the bidding process, please contact the CSC Secretariat at
shared.scholarships@cscuk.org.uk
General enquiries about applying for Commonwealth Scholarships or Fellowships sent to this email address will not be answered; please use the
Contact us form
instead.
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyse our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Accept All
Reject
Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Cookie
Duration
Description
lidc
1 day
LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
li_gc
6 months
Linkedin set this cookie for storing visitor's consent regarding using cookies for non-essential purposes.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Cookie
Duration
Description
CLARITY_ID
Session
Microsoft Clarity - identifies the current session for heatmaps and recordings.
_clck
1 year
Microsoft Clarity - stores a unique user ID to recognise returning visits.
_clsk
1 day
Microsoft Clarity - connects multiple page views into a single session.
_ga
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to calculate visitor, session and campaign data and track site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognise unique visitors.
_ga_*
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to store and count page views.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Cookie
Duration
Description
bcookie
1 year
LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser IDs.
iutk
6 months
Issuu sets this cookie to recognise the user's device and what Issuu documents have been read.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
Powered by
