=== SOURCE ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/current-scholars/handbook-policies-forms/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://cscuk.fcdo.gov.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Handbook, Policies and Forms - Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK
Handbooks, Policies and Forms
This page brings together the CSC’s policies relating to Scholars and Fellows as well as our Handbooks and the key forms and policies which Scholars and Fellows will find useful.
CSC Handbooks
These Handbooks provides general guidelines for Commonwealth PhD Scholars, Commonwealth Master’s Scholars, Commonwealth Shared Scholars, and Commonwealth Split-site Scholars.
Handbook for Commonwealth Scholars (Master’s, PhD, and Split-site)
Handbook for Commonwealth Shared Scholars
CSC Forms
Bank Account Form
Claim for Reimbursement Form
Departure Form (Master’s Scholars only)
Departure Form (PhD and Split-site PhD Scholars only)
Exceptional Welfare Extension Form
Family Record Form
Fieldwork Information Form
Health and Disability Form
Mid-term Visit Form
Registration Form
Stipend Advance Form
On Award Policies
CSC Compassionate Policy
The CSC has a compassionate airfare and leave policy for award-holders that are affected by the bereavement of a partner or first-degree relative
CSC Exceptional Welfare Extension Policy
The Exceptional Welfare Extension Policy can be used by Scholars to request a short extension of their scholarship if there are significant and unavoidable welfare circumstances. This policy should be read alongside the
Exceptional Welfare Extension Guidance
.
CSC Maternity and Paternity Policy
The maternity and paternity policy applies to PhD and Split-Site Scholars who have the agreement of their university to either take maternity leave in the UK or to return to their home country to give birth.
Other CSC Policies
CSC Code of Conduct for Award Holders
Scholars and Fellows should ensure that they are familiar with the CSC’s Code of Conduct for Award-holders and abide by it at all times.
CSC Code of Conduct for Alumni
Commonwealth Alumni should ensure that they are familiar with the CSC’s Code of Conduct for Alumni and abide by it at all times.
CSC Code of Conduct for Virtual Events
Commonwealth Scholars, Fellows and Alumni should ensure that they are familiar with the CSC’s Code of Conduct for Virtual Events and abide by it when attending online events.
CSC Award-holder Disciplinary Policy and Procedure
The CSC is committed proactively to safeguard and promote the welfare of our beneficiaries, and to protect its staff, Commissioners, beneficiaries and all those with whom the CSC comes into contact. The CSC requires staff, members of the Commission, applicants for and recipients of CSC awards and suppliers to act consistently with its requirements for safeguarding. Award-holders should make sure that they are familiar with their UK host institution’s own safeguarding policy and procedure including reporting mechanisms in case they should need to use it, but should also note the CSC’s Safeguarding Policy.
CSC Safeguarding Policy
The CSC is committed proactively to safeguard and promote the welfare of our beneficiaries, and to protect its staff, Commissioners, beneficiaries and all those with whom the CSC comes into contact. The CSC requires staff, members of the Commission, applicants for and recipients of CSC awards and suppliers to act consistently with its requirements for safeguarding. Award-holders should make sure that they are familiar with their UK host institution’s own safeguarding policy and procedure including reporting mechanisms in case they should need to use it, but should also note the
CSC’s Safeguarding Policy
which sets out the obligation for staff, members of the Commission, applicants for and recipients of CSC awards and suppliers to act consistently with its requirements for safeguarding.
Any safeguarding concerns should be reported to the CSC at:
csc.safeguarding@cscuk.org.uk
CSC Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption Policy Procedure
The CSC Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out the standards that must be met and clarifies the actions that individuals need to make with regards to actual or perceived fraud, bribery or corruption.
CSC Complaints Policy and Procedure
The CSC Complaints Policy and Procedure sets out the mechanism for reporting a complaint against actions taken by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC), its members, members of the CSC Secretariat, CSC delivery partners, and CSC Scholars and Fellows in so far as their actions are related to the CSC.
CSC Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure
The CSC Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure sets out the way in which individuals may raise any concerns that they have regarding the CSC and how those concerns will be dealt with.
CSC Travel Policy
The CSC Travel Policy outlines the procedure for travel to and from the UK for Scholars at the beginning and end of their award.
Read our quick guide on
booking with Diversity Travel
before making your travel arrangements.
CSC Policy on Requests to Enter or Remain in the United Kingdom for Further Study
The CSC has a policy on requests to return or remain in the UK to undertake doctoral study.
Equity, Access and Inclusion Policy
This Equity, Access and Inclusion Policy outlines the CSC’s responsibility to develop an environment and community free from discrimination for all those who encounter the CSC.
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyse our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Accept All
Reject
Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Cookie
Duration
Description
lidc
1 day
LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
li_gc
6 months
Linkedin set this cookie for storing visitor's consent regarding using cookies for non-essential purposes.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Cookie
Duration
Description
CLARITY_ID
Session
Microsoft Clarity - identifies the current session for heatmaps and recordings.
_clck
1 year
Microsoft Clarity - stores a unique user ID to recognise returning visits.
_clsk
1 day
Microsoft Clarity - connects multiple page views into a single session.
_ga
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to calculate visitor, session and campaign data and track site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognise unique visitors.
_ga_*
1 year 1 month 4 days
Google Analytics sets this cookie to store and count page views.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Cookie
Duration
Description
bcookie
1 year
LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser IDs.
iutk
6 months
Issuu sets this cookie to recognise the user's device and what Issuu documents have been read.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
Powered by
