=== SOURCE ===
https://us.fulbrightonline.org/applicants

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://us.fulbrightonline.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
US Fulbright Program - Getting Started
The
2027-2028 Competition is now open. The National Deadline is October 6, 2026 at 5pm Eastern Time.
Start an application
.
US Fulbright Program - Getting Started
Getting Started
Types of Awards
Study/Research Awards
English Teaching Assistant Awards
Fulbright-National Geographic Award Program
Fulbright-Fogarty Fellowships in Public Health
Search for a Fulbright Program Adviser
Award Search
Application Components
Study/Research: Academic
Study/Research: Creative & Performing Arts
ETA
Fulbright-National Geographic Award Program
Virtual Webinars
Fulbright Online Application
Getting Started
The 2027-2028 Competition is now open.
The national deadline is Tuesday October 6, 2026 at 5 pm Eastern Time
Step 1: Confirm Eligibility
Review
eligibility requirements
for the Fulbright U.S. Student Program before proceeding.
Step 2: Determine Applicant Type
You will apply either through a U.S. institution or At-Large.
If you are currently enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate program at a U.S. college or university, you are strongly encouraged to apply through that institution.
If you are not currently enrolled, you may apply through your most recent U.S.-based institution that has a Fulbright Program Adviser (FPA), provided that the institution is willing and able to accommodate alumni applications. All other candidates will apply as At-Large applicants.
Application procedure for candidates applying through U.S. institutions
The Fulbright Program Adviser (FPA) will set a campus application deadline for the institution’s students, which is typically 4-6 weeks earlier than the final October deadline. Please confirm the campus deadline with the FPA.
All candidates applying through a U.S. institution must complete the Fulbright application through the Fulbright online application system by the campus deadline; all supporting materials as outlined in the Application Components section, must also be included by the campus deadline date. You will mark your application ‘Ready for Campus Review’ once it is complete and it will lock your application for the duration of the campus review.
Once your application has been completed and marked ready for institutional review, the Fulbright Program Adviser will schedule a campus interview for you.
Following the interview and before the national deadline in October, you may have the opportunity to revise your application based on feedback provided by the Fulbright Program Adviser and the campus review committee. Your FPA will unlock your application after the campus review is complete. You are responsible for submitting your own application before the National Deadline; your Fulbright Program Adviser cannot do this on your behalf.
Application submissions are final. Applications cannot be unsubmitted for any reason. Please carefully review application proof for accuracy prior to submission.
You are responsible for submitting your own application before the National Deadline; your Fulbright Program Adviser cannot do this on your behalf.
To find a Fulbright Program Adviser (FPA), please enter your institution name or select the state:
or
State
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Search
Clear
We were unable to find any schools that match your query. Please try entering different search criteria
Application procedure for At-Large candidates
At-Large candidates must submit their applications through the Fulbright online application system by the national deadline. Candidates are responsible for ensuring that all supporting documents are attached to the online application, as outlined in the
Application Components
. Application submissions are final. Applications cannot be unsubmitted for any reason. Please carefully review application proof for accuracy prior to submission.
Step 3: Select Award Type
Study/Research Awards
Offered for projects in all Academic and Creative & Performing Arts fields. Applicants can propose their own independent study/research projects, or, in some countries, can propose to enroll in a
graduate program
. Arts applicants, please proceed to the
Creative & Performing Arts Fields of Study
section for information about available fields and supplementary materials requirements.
English Teaching Assistant (ETA) Awards
Places grantees in educational centers overseas to supplement local English language instruction and to provide a fluent speaker presence in the classrooms. Please proceed to the
English Teaching Assistant Award
section to see the countries offering a grant.
Fulbright-Fogarty Fellowships in Public Health
The Fulbright-Fogarty Fellowships in Public Health are offered through a partnership between the Fulbright Program and the Fogarty International Center of the U.S. National Institutes of Health. The program is designed for candidates who are currently enrolled in medical school or in a graduate-level program and who are interested in global health. The basic requirements and process for applying for the Fulbright-Fogarty Program are the same as for any Fulbright U.S. Student Study/Research Grant. Please proceed to the
Fulbright-Fogarty Fellowships in Public Health
section for more information.
Resources for Picking the Correct Award
Tutorial Videos
and
Webinars
can assist you in learning more about each award type.
Award Search
allows you to narrow down opportunities by educational background, grant type, and world area.
Step 4: Review Country Opportunities
Select
country(ies)
of interest and review available awards and eligibility requirements.
Step 5: Review Application Components
Review Application Components
Step 6: Start An Application
The application is open annually from early April to mid-October. Check the
Competition Timeline
for this cycle dates.
Applicants applying through an institution will prepare a completed application by their campus deadlines, prior to the national deadline. Contact the
Fulbright Program Adviser
at your institution for more information.
Application submissions are final. Applications cannot be unsubmitted for any reason. Please carefully review application proof for accuracy prior to submission.
Start a
Fulbright U.S. Student Program application
now.
