=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/fellowships/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Fellowships | Chevening
Skip to content
Chevening Fellowships
In this section
Chevening Fellowships are offered to mid-career professionals who have reached a position of influence and want to increase their knowledge, networks, and potential through tailored short courses, research, or professional placements at UK institutions.
Chevening Fellowships are an important element of Britain’s public diplomacy effort and offer opportunities to mid-career leaders and influencers from across the globe. Fellows are often people of significant standing in their home countries and will usually have completed some element(s) of higher education already. Chevening Fellowships offer dynamic training, professional development, and other opportunities for individuals to spend time in the UK researching subject matters that are relevant to their professional interests as well as to the UK’s international strategic priorities.
Fellowships objectives
These awards aim to:
Support mid-career professionals already in positions of leadership and influence to further enhance and expand their knowledge, skills, and expertise in the UK.
Offer dynamic training, professional development, or research opportunities in the UK, relevant to professional interests and the UK’s international strategic priorities.
Increase the breadth and diversity of awards offered under Chevening to position Chevening as an internationally-competitive awards scheme.
Support foreign policy priorities and achieve FCDO objectives by creating lasting positive relationships with future leaders, influencers, and decision-makers, which become valuable soft power networks.
Fellowships have a different objective to our scholarship programme and aim to provide opportunities to mid-career professionals already in positions of leadership, looking to further develop in their field of expertise. Fellows are active in their field or subject and through their time in the UK on a Chevening Fellowship, which may be a short course or self-directed professional or academic research, have the opportunity to collaborate with colleagues and peers in an enriching environment. Fellows are usually unable to take a full year out of work to study a one year master’s degree, and a Chevening Fellowship provides the unique opportunity to individuals to undertake this period of study in the UK at various pre-set times throughout the year.
Fellows are offered dynamic training, professional development, or opportunities to spend time in the UK researching subject matters that are relevant to their professional interests, as well as to the UK’s international strategic priorities. Fellowship alumni can maintain and continue dialogue on their fellowship subject with UK embassies and high commissions upon returning home.
Download transcript for Chevening Fellowships video here
(please note, clicking here will start an automatic download of a Word Document [14 KB])
Find a programme
Find a programme
Find a Chevening Fellowship programme
Latest news and blogs
Latest news and blogs
Find the latest news from Chevening
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Cookie Policy
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Cookie Settings
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
