=== SOURCE ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/scholarships/institutional-certifications-endorsements/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Institutional Certifications & Endorsements | Rhodes Trust
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open! Click here to learn more.
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open!
Open
Start your Application
The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international scholarship programme in the world, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to undertake full-time postgraduate study at the University of Oxford.
Navigate below to understand each stage of the application process.
1. The Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more about what the Rhodes Scholarship is, the costs covered, and what makes it special.
2. The Selection Criteria
What makes a Rhodes Scholar? Learn about the selection criteria which determined the first Rhodes Scholars in 1902, and still guide us today.
3. Check Your Eligibility and Apply
Find out if you are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, which constituency you should apply through, and start your application!
Frequently Asked Questions
Consult our comprehensive list of FAQs about the Scholarship, funding, eligibility criteria, application process and more.
You are here : Scholarships >
Institutional Certifications & Endorsements
Institutional Certifications & Endorsements
An institutional certification or endorsement is a mandatory prerequisite of the Rhodes Scholarship application in
Canada
and the
United States
respectively. The guidance below
explains this process for each constituency
.
What makes a Rhodes Scholar
The Rhodes Scholarship is a merit scholarship, and there is no such thing as a 'type' when considering who gets selected. In fact, the strength of the Scholarship comes from its rigorous selection criteria and diversity.
The selection criteria which determined the first Rhodes Scholars in 1902 still guide us today:
➜ Literary and scholastic attainments (academic excellence)
➜ Energy to use one's talents to the full (as demonstrated by mastery in areas such as sports, music, debate, dance, theatre, and artistic pursuits, particularly where teamwork is involved)
➜ Truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy for and protection of the weak, kindliness, unselfishness and fellowship
➜ Moral force of character and instincts to lead, and to take an interest in one's fellow beings.
Learn more about the Selection Criteria
Academic excellence is a foundational requirement of the Rhodes Scholarship. Candidates are expected to demonstrate intellectual and scholarly achievement at the highest level, broadly equivalent to the academic calibre required for entry to Canada’s and the United States’ most selective graduate programmes. A GPA of 3.7/4.0 is considered the minimum threshold for admission to the University of Oxford.
While academic excellence is essential, it must be combined with exceptional strength of character, a commitment to serving others, and instincts for leadership. A candidate who excels academically but does not demonstrate these qualities in equal measure is unlikely to succeed in their application.
Canada
All candidates applying from the Canada constituency must obtain formal certification (previously known as 'endorsement') from their university.
University officials will need to complete a short certification form attesting to the applicant’s status at the institution. You may also choose to provide additional commentary about a particular applicant's candidacy at your discretion.
Please note the deadline for submitting applicant certifications for the
Rhodes Scholarship for Canada
is
23:59 PT, 28 September 2026
.
In case your institution is organising any internal selection processes, please also note the separate deadline for endorsing candidates applying from the United States constituency.
Detailed guidance on providing certifications can be found here.
United States
As part of the endorsement process, institutions are invited (but not required to) organise internal committees to assess the relative merits of applicants for the Rhodes Scholarship as per the selection criteria outlined above. Institutions or internal committees may also wish to advise and prepare candidates they have chosen to endorse as outlined in
Information for Academic Advisors.
Please note the deadline for endorsing candidates for the
Rhodes Scholarships for the United States
is
23:59 ET, 7 October 2026
.
In case your institution is organising any internal selection processes, please also note the earlier deadline for submitting certifications for candidates applying from the Canada constituency.
Detailed guidance on providing institutional endorsements can be found here.
Related pages
Outreach Resources
Help us spread the word about the Rhodes Scholarship and reach talented people from around the world.
Outreach Resources
Find out more
Key Facts about the Rhodes Scholarship
Established in 1902, the Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international graduate scholarship programme in the world.
Key Facts about the Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more
Information for Academic Advisors
As an academic advisor, you are uniquely placed to help your students pursue the Rhodes Scholarship.
Information for Academic Advisors
Find out more
Guidance for Referees
References are a crucial part of the selection process, and can significantly influence application outcome.
Guidance for Referees
Find out more
Connect with Rhodes
LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
TikTok
Bluesky
YouTube
Get Involved
Give Now
Leave a Legacy
Volunteer
Subscribe to our newsletter
