=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/fellowships/who-can-apply/fellowships-eligibility/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Eligibility for a Chevening Fellowship | Chevening
Skip to content
Fellowships eligibility criteria
General eligibility requirements for a Chevening Fellowship
In this section
To be eligible for a Chevening Fellowship you must:
Be a citizen of a fellowship-eligible country or territory.
If you live in a European overseas territory, you may apply through the relevant Chevening award scheme for the European country of which you are a citizen.
Demonstrate the potential to rise to a position of leadership and influence.
Demonstrate the personal, intellectual, and interpersonal attributes reflecting this potential.
Return to your country of citizenship (country of award) for at least one year after your fellowship ends.
Meet all programme-specific fellowship eligibility requirements.
Not hold British or dual British citizenship (unless you are a citizen of a British Overseas Territory).
Not have received UK Government scholarship funding (including Chevening) within the last five years. You will only be eligible to apply for a Chevening Fellowship after a period of five years following the completion of your first UK Government-funded scholarship.
Not be an employee, a former employee, or relative* of an employee of His Majesty’s Government, or have been within the last two years from the opening of Chevening applications (including the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, all British Embassies/High Commissions, the Home Office, the Ministry of Defence, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, the Department for International Trade and the UKVI), the British Council, or a sponsoring UK university. Individuals contracted to work on any British Council programme or project, and their relatives, are ineligible.
Employees, former employees, or relatives* of an employee of Chevening partner organisations are eligible to apply, but if the employment took place within the last two years, you cannot receive a Chevening partner award from the organisation from which you work, previously worked, or are affiliated with through relatives.
*
Immediate relatives are defined as parents or step-parents, siblings or step-siblings, children or step-children, spouse, civil partner or unmarried (where the couple have been in a relationship akin to marriage or civil partnership for at least two years).
To find out if there are any additional eligibility requirements for your chosen fellowship, please check the
relevant programme page
.
Work experience
Work experience
Work experience requirements for individuals applying for a Chevening Fellowship.
Find a programme
Find a programme
Find a programme to learn more about individual requirements.
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Cookie Policy
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Cookie Settings
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
