=== SOURCE ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/scholarships/the-rhodes-scholarship/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
The Rhodes Scholarship | Rhodes Trust
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open! Click here to learn more.
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are open!
Open
Start your Application
The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest international scholarship programme in the world, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to undertake full-time postgraduate study at the University of Oxford.
Navigate below to understand each stage of the application process.
1. The Rhodes Scholarship
Find out more about what the Rhodes Scholarship is, the costs covered, and what makes it special.
2. The Selection Criteria
What makes a Rhodes Scholar? Learn about the selection criteria which determined the first Rhodes Scholars in 1902, and still guide us today.
3. Check Your Eligibility and Apply
Find out if you are eligible to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, which constituency you should apply through, and start your application!
Frequently Asked Questions
Consult our comprehensive list of FAQs about the Scholarship, funding, eligibility criteria, application process and more.
You are here : Scholarships >
The Rhodes Scholarship
Application Process
Navigate below to understand each stage of the application process.
The Rhodes Scholarship
When different people come together in a shared spirit, an exciting new journey begins. The Rhodes Scholarship is a life-changing postgraduate opportunity to join outstanding people from around the world to study at the University of Oxford.
Applications for the Rhodes Scholarship 2027 are now open!
Applications made this year are for entry to the University of Oxford in October 2027. You can
sign up to our mailing list
to be notified when applications reopen in future years.
What is the Rhodes Scholarship?
A life-changing opportunity for postgraduate study at Oxford University
The Rhodes Scholarship is a fully-funded postgraduate award which enables talented people from around the world to study full-time at the
University of Oxford
. The Rhodes Scholarship is merit-based, with the purpose of developing public-spirited leaders, and to promote international understanding and peace through an international community of Scholars.
Applying for the Scholarship is a challenge, but it is an experience which has helped generations of people to succeed. We encourage applications from talented students around the world.
Rhodes Scholars come to the UK for two or more years and can apply to study most full-time postgraduate courses in almost any field offered by Oxford University.
What does the Rhodes Scholarship cover?
Costs covered by the Scholarship
The Rhodes Scholarship covers University of Oxford course fees, as well as providing an annual stipend. For the 2025-26 academic year, the stipend is £20,400 per annum (£1,700 per month) from which Scholars pay all living expenses, including accommodation. Please note: this is not sufficient to cover partners or dependents.
The detailed
Conditions of Tenure document
outlines permitted combinations of degrees, and how many years of study are covered by the Scholarship, as the latter depends on course choice — for example, up to three years of fees and stipend is available to Scholars who choose to undertake a DPhil (PhD) at Oxford.
Following selection for the Scholarship, the Rhodes Trust will also cover:
The fee required to apply to study at the University of Oxford
Fees for a student visa and associated International Health Surcharge (IHS), which enables international students to access the UK's National Health Service
Two economy class flights to and from the UK, for the beginning and end of studies in Oxford.
On arrival in Oxford, Scholars receive a settling in allowance, and Scholars who transition to a second course of study in Oxford will receive assistance to cover the fees for visa renewal and further application for IHS.
What makes the Rhodes Scholarship special?
Life at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar
1. Life at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar
The University of Oxford consistently ranks among the top universities globally, offering you the opportunity to receive an exceptional postgraduate education. Here, you will have access to world-leading academic departments while being part of an interdisciplinary college community with outstanding social, sports and cultural facilities. As a Rhodes Scholar you will also have Rhodes House, a place to meet, think and learn in the heart of Oxford. Living in this beautiful, vibrant and historic city, the Rhodes Scholar experience is one of a kind.
2. The Rhodes Community
From the moment you are selected, you will be welcomed into a
global, lifelong community
of Rhodes Scholars, Alumni, and Fellows
from our partnership programs. Beyond gaining access to a powerful professional network, you will connect with thoughtful, kind and ambitious individuals from around the world, collectively striving to drive progress.
3. Programming for Rhodes Scholars
With a community of Rhodes Scholars representing over 70 countries, Rhodes House is a space for cultivating international collaboration and deepening cross-cultural understanding. Our programming develops your skills to lead with integrity and purpose, fostering a lifelong commitment to service in your chosen field. You will have the opportunity to participate in a lively programme of activities including welcome weeks, cultural celebrations, networking events, leadership and career development workshops, and more.
4. Scholar Support
Our dedicated Scholar Team is present to support you pastorally and financially at every stage of your journey from selection to the end of your studies. The Rhodes Trust staff are here to support you with settling in and thriving in a new environment, to ensure your academic, professional and personal success. We also provide emergency financial assistance and grants to fund research, travel and creative opportunities to help you make the most of your time at Oxford.
Next: History of the Rhodes Scholarship ➜
Connect with Rhodes
LinkedIn
Instagram
Facebook
TikTok
Bluesky
YouTube
Get Involved
Give Now
Leave a Legacy
Volunteer
Subscribe to our newsletter
