=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/asean-chevening-scholarship/

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Chevening ASEAN Scholarship | Chevening
Skip to content
Chevening ASEAN Scholarship
Applying for a Chevening Scholarship from an ASEAN member state or Timor-Leste? Read on to find out more about the ASEAN Chevening Scholarship and its benefits.
The Chevening ASEAN Scholarship is an opportunity for outstanding individuals from ASEAN member states or Timor-Leste to pursue a one-year master’s degree in the UK. As part of the prestigious Chevening Scholarship programme, ASEAN applicants can apply for all the standard benefits, with the additional opportunity to be considered for the Chevening ASEAN Scholarship.
How to apply
To be considered for the Chevening ASEAN Scholarship, apply for a Chevening Scholarship through
the standard application process
. The highest-ranking applicant(s) from each participating country will be considered.
Apply
Exclusive events
A series of exclusive events and opportunities designed to enhance your experience in the UK.
This includes a welcome event at the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) to kick-start your journey.
Priority invitations
Priority invitations to the South East Asia Policy Network and ASEAN events hosted by the FCDO, providing valuable networking opportunities.
ASEAN Chevening Conference
A post-graduation ASEAN Chevening Conference, where you’ll reconnect with fellow ASEAN scholars and alumni to share insights and discuss key regional issues.
Join our global alumni community
Like all Chevening scholars, after graduation you will join the wider global Chevening alumni community, connecting with alumni from across the world. Additionally, you’ll be eligible to apply for funding from the
Chevening Alumni Programme Fund
, which supports regional projects and events led by alumni. You may also be invited to speak or participate in UK-ASEAN workshops and events in your area of expertise.
Key points to note
Opting to be considered for the Chevening ASEAN Scholarship does not impact your chances of being selected for a Chevening Scholarship. You will still be considered for the standard Chevening Scholarship if you choose not to apply for the ASEAN Scholarship.
The Chevening ASEAN Scholarship is open to all fields of study. There are no specific subject areas prioritised for this scholarship.
We encourage all eligible ASEAN applicants to apply for the Chevening Scholarship and to consider opting in for the Chevening ASEAN Scholarship to access this unique programme of enhanced opportunities and networking.
Are you eligible?
Are you eligible?
Find out if you're eligible to apply
Chevening application criteria
Chevening application criteria
Our guide to the Chevening application criteria
Find a course
Find a course
Explore related eligible courses
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Cookie Policy
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Cookie Settings
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
