=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/application-timeline

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Application timeline | Chevening
Skip to content
Application timeline
This timeline is for applicants applying for a Chevening Scholarship only. Application timelines for Chevening Fellowships vary.
4 August 2026
Applications open at 11:00 UTC
Read our application guidance
, and then apply via your
country/territory’s
page.
Please make sure you
check what time 11:00 UTC is in your time zone
.
6 October 2026
Applications close at 11:00 UTC
The deadline for applications is 6 October 2026 at 11:00 UTC. You will not be able to access the online application system after this date.
Please make sure you
check what time 11:00 UTC is in your time zone
.
From October 2026
Applications are sifted against eligibility criteria.
Read about Chevening’s eligibility criteria
.
Mid-October 2026 to January 2027
Reading committee assessments
Independent reading committees assess all eligible applications.
Mid-February 2027
Applicants shortlisted for interviews
Once applications have been reviewed, British embassies and high commissions produce a shortlist. These candidates are invited to interview. Congratulations if you make it this far! To prepare for your interview,
please read our interview guidance
.
March to April 2027
Interviews take place
Candidates from all over the world are interviewed by panels at British embassies and high commissions.
Candidates invited for an interview must upload all their documentation to the online application system at least seven working days before their interview. Documents include photo ID, undergraduate education certificate/diploma, and reference letters.
Mid-June 2027
Results
After months of preparation and trepidation, successful candidates will experience jubilation when interview results are announced from mid-June onwards.
8 July 2027
Offer deadline
If you are invited to interview and your interview is successful, you will be asked to submit your unconditional offer from a UK university. The deadline to receive and submit at least one unconditional UK university offer is 17:00 BST (UK time) on 8 July 2027.
September/October 2027
Studies begin in the UK
2027-28 Chevening scholars commence their studies in the UK, and enter into an international network that they’ll be a part of for the rest of their lives!
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Cookie Policy
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Cookie Settings
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
