=== SOURCE ===
https://www.chevening.org/sids-chevening-scholarship

=== LICENSE / TERMS ===
https://www.chevening.org/terms

=== CRAWLED ===
2026-09-30

=== CONTENT ===
Chevening SIDS Scholarship | Chevening
Skip to content
Chevening SIDS Scholarship
Applying for a Chevening Scholarship from a Commonwealth Small Island Developing State (SIDS)? Read on to find out more about the SIDS Chevening Scholarship and its benefits.
The Chevening SIDS Scholarship is an opportunity for outstanding individuals from Small Island Developing States (SIDS) to pursue a one-year master’s degree in the UK. As part of the prestigious Chevening Scholarship programme, SIDS applicants can apply for all the standard benefits, with the additional opportunity to be considered for the Chevening SIDS Scholarship.
How to apply
To be considered for the Chevening SIDS Scholarship, apply for a Chevening Scholarship through
the standard application process
.
Apply
Applicants are required to study on courses that help to address a national development priority or capacity shortage. This includes courses relating to:
Human rights, democracy, and the rule of law
Climate change and sustainability
Economic recovery and growth
Supportive societies that help people lead peaceful and productive lives
Exclusive events
A series of exclusive events and opportunities designed to enhance your experience in the UK.
Exclusive networking opportunities
You’ll be invited to a welcome event at the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) to kick-start your journey.
Here, you will have the opportunity to network with SIDS scholars from the Commonwealth Scholarships Commission, as well as FCDO officials.
Join our global alumni community
Like all Chevening scholars, after graduation you will join the wider global Chevening alumni community, connecting with alumni from across the world. Additionally, you’ll be eligible to apply for funding from the
Chevening Alumni Programme Fund
, which supports regional projects and events led by alumni.
You may also be invited to speak or participate in UK-SIDS workshops and events in your area of expertise.
Key points to note
Opting to be considered for the Chevening SIDS Scholarship does not impact your chances of being selected for a Chevening Scholarship. You will still be considered for the standard Chevening Scholarship if you choose not to apply for the SIDS Scholarship.
We encourage all eligible SIDS applicants to apply for the Chevening Scholarship and to consider opting in for the Chevening SIDS Scholarship to access this unique programme of enhanced opportunities and networking.
Are you eligible?
Are you eligible?
Find out if you're eligible to apply
Chevening application criteria
Chevening application criteria
Our guide to the Chevening application criteria
Choosing a UK university course
Choosing a UK university course
Everything you need to know about choosing a UK university
We would like to use some small files called "cookies" on your device to make our website work, alongside 'Analytics' and 'Marketing' Cookies. These send information about how our site is used to various tools we use, and we use this information to improve our website for you.
We won't use optional cookies unless you enable them.
You can read more about the cookies that we use here.
Cookie Policy
Accept recommended
Customise cookies
Cookie Settings
Manage your cookie preferences below. Necessary cookies are always enabled as they are essential for the website to function properly.
Analytics
▼
We’d like to set Google Analytics cookies to help us improve our website by collecting information on how you use it. These cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify you. For more information on how these cookies work, please see our ‘cookies page’.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Google Analytics
Google
Improve website by collecting interaction information.
90
Marketing
▼
Marketing cookies are used to display advertisements that are relevant to you. They are often used by third-party companies, and may be used to track you across other websites.
Cookies used:
Allow
Name
Provider
Purpose
Expiry
Facebook Pixel
Facebook
90
Twitter
Twitter
90
Customise cookies
